QUARK: Welcome, welcome, welcome.
DAX: It's a little quiet in here.
QUARK: Oh, you just beat the rush. Let me get your order before, er,  before I get swamped.
DAX: I'll have a Til'amin froth.
KIRA: And I'll have a
WORF: What was that?
QUARK: What was what? Oh, that? It's just my nephew and Chief O'Brien  repairing some conduit. You'll get used to it.
WORF: The Klingon restaurant?
DAX: It would be quieter.
QUARK: When are you two going to be done in there?
NOG: When the conduit is repaired and brought back up to safety specs.
QUARK: Well, hurry up, before I lose all my customers.
NOG: I need to get something.
QUARK: What?
NOG: Two root beers?
O'BRIEN: Hyper spanner.
O'BRIEN: Optronic coupler.
O'BRIEN: How did you know I was going to ask for a phase decompiler?
NOG: I was paying attention, sir.
O'BRIEN: That you were, Cadet.
NOG: My father says that I can learn a lot from you. He says you can  fix anything.
O'BRIEN: I'm an Engineer. That's what we do. There. Good as new.
NOG: Amazing.
O'BRIEN: Damn!
O'BRIEN: We repaired the leak right away. The problem is worse than I  thought. The entire plasma distribution manifold is shot.
SISKO: Can you replicate a new one?
O'BRIEN: No. Cardassian manifolds use a beta-matrix compositor which  can't be replicated.
ODO: I suppose we could contact Gul Dukat and ask if he has any spare  manifold systems lying around.
SISKO: I'm sure he'd jump at the chance to help us. Any other ideas?
O'BRIEN: We could send a salvage team to the abandoned Cardassian  station in the Trivas System.
SISKO: Empok Nor?
O'BRIEN: It's the same design as this station. The Cardassians pulled  out about a year ago, but there's a good chance that the plasma  manifold system is still operational.
SISKO: What about Dominion activity in the area?
O'BRIEN: There hasn't been any for several months. Strategically, they  seem to have lost interest in that sector.
ODO: But there is one problem. It's standard Cardassian procedure to  booby-trap a facility before abandoning it, and a lot of the surprises  they leave behind are specifically keyed to attack non-Cardassians.
SISKO: Sounds like you should take a Cardassian along.
O'BRIEN: So what did Captain Sisko do to persuade  you to come along?
GARAK: How do you know I didn't volunteer?
O'BRIEN: He threatened you, didn't he?
GARAK: Nothing so coarse. The Captain bribed me. He offered to help me  procure a larger space for my workshop. The latest dressmaking  equipment is surprisingly bulky.
O'BRIEN: Well, whatever he did, I'm glad you're  here. What's the matter?
GARAK: It's just that lately I've noticed that everyone seems to trust  me. It's quite unnerving. I'm still trying to get used to it. Next  thing I know, people are going to be inviting me to their homes for  dinner.
O'BRIEN: Well, if it makes you feel any better, I promise I will never  have you over.
GARAK: I appreciate that, Chief.
O'BRIEN: Don't mention it. Anything to return the favour. Disarming  Cardassian booby traps  is my least favourite kind of engineering.
GARAK: I can certainly understand that, but don't worry. I have some  experience in that area.
BOQ'TA:  Booby-traps? I can't believe I let  you talk me into volunteering for this.
PECHETTI: Well, it beats working on the waste extraction system.  Besides, how often does an engineer get to wear a phaser?
STOLZOFF:  Hate to disappoint you, Pechetti. But the  only thing you'll be using that for is shooting voles. Empok Nor's been  abandoned so long, they're going to be hungry.
AMARO:  Don't worry, you play with your wrenches, we'll  watch your back.
AMARO: Can I help you, Cadet?
NOG: I'm reporting for duty, sir.
O'BRIEN: Welcome aboard, Cadet.
NOG: Thank you, sir. And may I say it's a privilege to be here, sir.
O'BRIEN: You've earned it. But one more sir and I'll leave you behind.
NOG: Very well, s. Chief.
O'BRIEN: Let's get going. Next stop, Empok Nor.
GARAK: What are you doing?
NOG: Regrouping.
GARAK: But you're losing.
NOG: That's why I have to protect my assets.
GARAK: This is not a financial transaction. Protecting your assets is  what got you into trouble in the first place. You have to go on the  offensive. You have to attack.
NOG: Your move.
GARAK: This is maddening. Asking a Ferengi to play a Cardassian game is  like asking a Klingon to chew with his mouth closed. Kotra is not about  regrouping or hoarding assets. It's about bold strategy and decisive  action. Chief, would you like to take on the winner? I'd love to play  Kotra against the hero of Setlik Three.
O'BRIEN: What is that supposed to mean?
GARAK: Oh, we all know your distinguished war record. How you led two  dozen men against the Barrica encampment and took out an entire  regiment of Cardassians. If you play Kotra with half that brazenness,  we'd have quite a match.
O'BRIEN: I'm not a soldier anymore. I'm an engineer.
GARAK: I see. So when you and Doctor Bashir go into the holosuites for  hours at a time you're just repairing them?
O'BRIEN: What's your point, Garak?
GARAK: I'm just curious. Why do you and Doctor Bashir spend hours in  the holosuites dressed as fighter pilots, reliving ancient battles?
O'BRIEN: We do it for fun. It's a game.
GARAK: So is Kotra. And I'd love nothing more than to play against a  man like you.
O'BRIEN: Maybe some other time.
PECHETTI: Chief, here's the wish list you wanted. Three categories.  Must Have, which includes the manifolds and the plasma recoilers. Could  Use, things like EPS matrix converters and Would be Nice. Bypass  displacers, polarity maximisers, that sort of thing.
O'BRIEN: Cardassian emblems and insignias?
PECHETTI: A low priority, but if we happen to find some.
O'BRIEN: This is a salvage operation, Pechetti, not an opportunity to  indulge your collecting obsession.
PECHETTI: Right.
NOG: Approaching Empok Nor, sir.
O'BRIEN: Take us out of warp. Run a full scan. I'll take the helm.
NOG: The station's main power supply and life support systems are  offline. No lifesigns.
O'BRIEN: I'll take us into transporter range.
GARAK: Oh, I don't think we can risk beaming aboard. There are probably  pattern scramblers rigged to go off if they detect a non-Cardassian  transporter signal.
O'BRIEN: That could be messy. We'll have to dock. Landing pads are  sealed. We'll have to try an upper pylon.
NOG: Won't the airlock have booby-traps?
GARAK: You can count on it. And someone's going to have to disarm them  before we dock.
NOG: I volunteer, sir.
GARAK: The scanner in the airlock might mistake your enthusiasm as  Cardassian, but not your DNA. No, I'm afraid I'm the only one who as a  chance of getting through.
GARAK: Ah. Welcome to Empok Nor.
O'BRIEN: Thanks for having us.
GARAK: Take whatever you need. My house is your house.
O'BRIEN: All right, listen up. We're going to break up into three  teams. Nog and Stolzoff, you're with me. We're going to do the Must  Haves. Pechetti and Amaro, you'll do Could Use. Boq'ta and Garak, Would  Be Nice.
O'BRIEN: Garak has disabled the central security net, but there could  be booby-traps anywhere. Don't move into an area until you've scanned  it. If you see something that isn't right, don't touch it. Call for  help. All right, let's go.
BOQ'TA: It's a biogenic compound.
GARAK: I wonder where it came from. Follow me.
BOQ'TA: These look like stasis tubes.
BOQ'TA: Cardassian. He's been dead for about a year. Hey, look at this.
GARAK: Interesting.
BOQ'TA: A regimental badge.
GARAK: Third Battalion, First Order, if I'm not mistaken.
BOQ'TA: This is going to make Pechetti's day.
GARAK: Both these tubes have been activated recently.
O'BRIEN: Coil spanner. Flux-coupler.
NOG: Uh-oh.
O'BRIEN: Flux-coupler!
NOG: I left it on the runabout. I'll go get it right away, sir. I mean,  Chief.
GARAK : Garak to O'Brien.
O'BRIEN: Go ahead.
GARAK: Could you come down to the Infirmary?  There's something you should see.
O'BRIEN: On my way.
NOG: That's not right.
O'BRIEN: A runabout doesn't disengage from its  docking clamps and blow up all on its own.
GARAK: Which leads me to believe that the former occupants of these  chambers are up and about.
PECHETTI: If you're telling me that there are two Cardassian soldiers  from the Third Battalion loose on this station, we're in trouble. Death  to All. That was their motto.
GARAK: Three simple words, and they certainly sum up their credo  nicely.
NOG: Why would the Cardassians abandon the station and leave behind a  few soldiers in stasis tubes?
STOLZOFF: Why do you think? To guard it. The tubes were probably rigged  to wake them up as soon as someone came aboard.
O'BRIEN: That's possible, but one thing's for sure. They're out there  somewhere, and considering what they did to the runabout, I don't think  they're too friendly.
STOLZOFF: Maybe they're upset because we haven't introduced ourselves.
AMARO: We should find them, say hello.  This thing's not  working.
O'BRIEN: Neither's mine. They must've set up a dampening field.
BOQ'TA: We've got to get out of here. Let's call for help.
PECHETTI: How? The station's subspace transceiver was ripped out when  the Cardassians evacuated.
AMARO: Well, we could always try sending smoke signals.
O'BRIEN: That's not a bad idea. The deflector grid is still relatively  intact. If we could modify the field coils to emit a series of  covariant pulses.
PECHETTI: We could use the station like an old-fashioned telegraph and  tap out an SOS.
O'BRIEN: For the pulses to be strong enough to reach Deep Space Nine,  we'd have to boost power to the induction grid. Pechetti, you go down  to the Habitat ring and bring the microfusion reactor back online.  Stolzoff, you go with him. Boq'ta, realign the magnetic flow field in  conduit G-four. Amaro will watch your back. Nog and Garak, you're with  me. We'll set up the signal generator in cargo bay four.
NOG: Aye, Chief.
O'BRIEN: Use your communicators as little as possible. We don't want to  give away our positions. Any questions? Let's go.
GARAK: I'm not convinced Stolzoff was right about  our Cardassian friends. Why would anyone voluntarily seal themselves  into a stasis tube, perhaps for years, just to guard an abandoned  station? Even the Third Battalion isn't that fanatical. Something else  is going on.
O'BRIEN: Maybe so, but I don't intend to be here long enough to find  out what it is.
GARAK: That's the trouble with humans. You don't know how to appreciate  a good mystery.
O'BRIEN: I love a good mystery, the kind I can read in bed, not the  kind that's trying to kill me.
GARAK: Don't get me wrong, Chief. I want to get off this station as  much as you do, but I just know if I don't figure this  out it's going to nag at me for days.
O'BRIEN: Right now, let's concentrate on finishing this signal  modulator so we can get out of here. You have the whole trip home to  sort out the mystery. Nog? I need your help with the phase  discriminator.
NOG: On my way, Chief.
PECHETTI: Do you mind not aiming that at me?
STOLZOFF: Don't worry, the safety's on.
STOLZOFF: Tell me you did that.
STOLZOFF:  On three. One, two three.
PECHETTI: Maybe I did activate the turbolift without realising it.
STOLZOFF: I'm going up.
PECHETTI: Okay.
STOLZOFF: Pechetti! Stolzoff to O'Brien. A Cardassian
O'BRIEN: Stolzoff? Stolzoff!
BOQ'TA: The Cardassians must've surprised them. They're probably using  the internal sensors to track us.
O'BRIEN: Take it easy. We're going to get out of here, you can count on  that. But we've got to stay focused. It looks like Pechetti was almost  done getting the microfusion reactor back online. I'll finish that and  then I'll go back down to the cargo bay. How are you doing with the  conduits?
BOQ'TA: I'm done.
O'BRIEN: Good. You and Amaro get down to auxiliary control and  reconfigure the pulse generator.
BOQ'TA: We're going to split up?
O'BRIEN: We have to. If we don't send out a signal, we're never going  to get off this station.
BOQ'TA: But Chief, what if we can't
O'BRIEN: I need you, Boq'ta. You can do this.
AMARO: Don't worry. I'll watch your back.
BOQ'TA: Stolzoff was supposed to be watching Pechetti's back. Look what  happened to them.
O'BRIEN: What if I send Garak with you too? Would that make you feel  better?
GARAK: I'm flattered, but I'm afraid I have other plans.
O'BRIEN: What are you talking about?
GARAK: I don't intend to stand around waiting to be killed.
O'BRIEN: Meaning what?
GARAK: Meaning, I'm going after those two Cardassian soldiers and  neutralise them. Besides, all this whining is giving me a headache.
AMARO: You're going to have more than a headache if you don't do what  the Chief wants.
O'BRIEN: Amaro.
GARAK: You'd like to shoot me, wouldn't you? You're dying to kill a  Cardassian. Any Cardassian.
O'BRIEN: Let him go. If he thinks he can neutralise the Cardassians,  let him try. He'll be doing us all a favour.
GARAK: That's the spirit. Why don't you come with me, Chief? Kill a few  Cardies. It'd be like old times. Wouldn't you like to avenge their  deaths?
O'BRIEN: No. I just want to get everyone home.
GARAK: You're fighting your instincts, I can see it. But the hero of  Setlik Three is still inside there somewhere.
O'BRIEN: If you're going to go, go. Nog, you go with Boq'ta and Amaro.
NOG: Aye, sir.
BOQ'TA: It's all right, Chief. He can stay with you. For some reason,  knowing Garak's going after those Cardassians makes me feel better.
GARAK: Access denied. Access denied. Don't you know how to say anything  else? Apparently not.
GARAK: Access denied.
GARAK : Access denied. Access denied. Access  denied. How monotonous.
GARAK: Looking for me?
GARAK: That felt good.
NOG: Chief, why does Garak keep bringing up Setlik  Three?
O'BRIEN: Because he wants to get under my skin.
NOG: But you were a hero, weren't you?
O'BRIEN: That doesn't mean I like thinking about what happened then. I  was a soldier, Nog. Sometimes soldiers have to kill.
GARAK: Come now, Chief, don't be so modest. You did a lot of killing.
NOG: How'd you get in here? Both doors are secure.
GARAK: Secure is such a relative term, wouldn't you agree? I've brought  you something, if you don't mind.
GARAK: I'm sure Pechetti would have appreciated it more, but
O'BRIEN: Where did you get this?
GARAK: From its former owner.
NOG: You killed one of the soldiers?
GARAK: One down, one to go. By the way, I took a tissue sample from the  soldier's body. The analysis was rather fascinating, in a grim sort of  way. It seems the unfortunate soul had been given a massive dose of  psychotropic drugs.
O'BRIEN: Why?
GARAK: I'm not sure, but I can tell you one thing. It wasn't to make  him amicable. The drug's protein structure seems designed to amplify my  people's xenophobic tendencies. My guess is that the soldiers that were  left here were part of a Cardassian military experiment. The High  Command was probably looking for a way to further motivate their  troops.
O'BRIEN: So they gave them a drug to make them hate anybody but  Cardassians?
NOG: Then why did they attack you?
GARAK: That's a good question.
O'BRIEN: Maybe it's an experiment that went wrong. That's why they were  left in stasis. They were uncontrollable.
GARAK: I'd love to stay and hypothesise all afternoon, but once I've  set my mind to a task, I hate to leave it unfinished. What is it,  Chief?
O'BRIEN: You look different.
GARAK: How so?
O'BRIEN: That's not the face of a tailor.
GARAK: I'm not a tailor. Not for the moment, anyway.
BOQ'TA: You know, I once bought a suit from Garak.  Turns out the sleeve was a little long. I remember being angry when I  brought it in to be fixed.
AMARO: Is there a point to this story?
BOQ'TA: If I had known he was so dangerous, I never would've  complained. You think he'll get the other Cardassian?
AMARO: I hope not. I want to get him myself.
BOQ'TA: I don't blame you.
AMARO: Stolzoff was my friend. We were at the Academy together.
AMARO: She was my sparring partner. The first time we faced off I  remember thinking I ought to take it easy on her. She ended up taking  me down so hard it knocked the wind out of me. That was the last time I  ever pulled a punch with her. She had this one two combination, a feint  to the right and a chop to the neck, faked me out every time. If that  spoonhead gives me the chance, I'll just try it out on him. I think  Stolzoff would have liked that.
BOQ'TA: I can't get this loose. Give me the coil spanner, would you?
AMARO: What does it look like?
BOQ'TA: It's got two pointy things on the end.
AMARO: He asked me to get a coil spanner for him. I just turned my back  for a second.
GARAK: That's a shame. And the worst part of it is, this isn't a coil  spanner.
GARAK: It's a flux coupler.
O'BRIEN: That should do it. O'Brien to Boq'ta.  Boq'ta, come in. Amaro, what's going on up there?
AMARO: He's out there.
O'BRIEN: Easy now. Easy. Who's out there?
AMARO: Garak. He stabbed me.
NOG: Chief, why would Garak do this?
O'BRIEN: Come on. He may still be close by.
NOG: It doesn't make any sense. Garak's on our  side.
O'BRIEN: Not anymore. The psychotropic drug. He must've been exposed to  it. It's the only explanation. I should've seen it earlier. The way he  accused Amaro of wanting to kill him. The way he insisted on going  after those Cardassians.
NOG: He's coming after us, isn't he?
O'BRIEN: Yes.
NOG: Maybe we can reason with him. Get him to try to understand that  the drug is affecting him.
O'BRIEN: You saw what he did to Amaro and the others. He's not going to  listen to us.
NOG: Then we have to finish setting up the deflector grid. We've got to  get a distress signal out.
O'BRIEN: Garak knows what we've been trying to do. He'll stop us.
NOG: Don't we have to try?
O'BRIEN: Forget it! I've already lost four crewmen trying to send out  that bloody signal. Garak was right. We should've gone after those  Cardassians as soon as they attacked us. You don't wait for the enemy  to come to you, you go to him. Come on. We're going after Garak.
NOG: You mean, to kill him?
O'BRIEN: If that's what it takes to stop him, yes.
GARAK: I know you're hiding somewhere. Ah, there  you are.
GARAK: Garak to Chief O'Brien. You'll never guess what I found. A kotra  board. The Station Commander left one in his office.
GARAK : The pieces were scattered all over but  I found the last one hiding under his desk.
GARAK: I can't help thinking what a perfect  metaphor this game is for our present situation. Two players, two  minds, two strategies.
GARAK : Each trying to outmanoeuvre the other,  testing the enemy's defences. Advancing, retreating.
O'BRIEN: We split up. Enter Ops through the main corridor. I'll go  through the Captain's office. Wait for my signal.
GARAK : The only difference is, in the game we're playing
GARAK: The stakes are life and death, which makes  it so much more interesting.
GARAK : I haven't had this much fun in years. My heart's pounding.
GARAK : The blood's racing through my veins. I feel so alive. And  I'd wager so you do.
GARAK: It looks like I've captured your last piece,  Chief. If you want it back, you're going to have to take it from me.
GARAK : It's your move, Chief. What are you going to do? Attack?  Retreat? Surrender?
O'BRIEN: Listen to me, Garak. It's the drug. It's affecting you. You've  got to fight it.
GARAK: Fight it? But I'm enjoying myself. This is the most exciting  game I've played in years.
O'BRIEN : It's not a game!
GARAK: Oh, but it is. And the best thing about it is that it brings out  the player's true nature.
O'BRIEN : Where are you, Garak?
GARAK: I saw the look in your eyes when I took the Ferengi away from  you. You wanted to kill me.
GARAK : You wanted to strangle me with your  bare hands.
O'BRIEN: I just want my crewman back, that's all.
GARAK : You're a killer. Admit it.
GARAK: We both are. Behind your Federation mask of  decency and benevolence, you're a predator
GARAK: Just like me.
O'BRIEN: No, I'm nothing like you.
GARAK: Oh, but you are. You proved that on Setlik  Three. How many Cardassians did you kill? Ten? Twenty?
GARAK : A hundred?
O'BRIEN: I don't remember.
GARAK : Oh, but you remember how you felt.
GARAK: The Cardassians were killing your men. You  had to stop them. You had to make them pay. Blood for blood. You  enjoyed killing them, didn't you. You enjoyed watching the life drain  from their eyes.
O'BRIEN: All right, Garak, you want to finish this  game? Fine. Let's finish it.
O'BRIEN : You and me. Face to face.
GARAK: Nothing would give me greater pleasure. We'll meet on the  Promenade.
O'BRIEN: No weapons.
GARAK : No weapons.
GARAK: You have no idea how hard it is to keep from  pulling this trigger. But I need you alive.
GARAK: They've come to cheer you on, Chief. Your loyal team. Apparently  they've forgiven you for getting them all killed.
GARAK: My supporters may be fewer in number, but they're no less loyal.  I thought we agreed no weapons.
O'BRIEN: What's that in your hand?
GARAK: Well, how did this get here? But we won't be needing these, will  we. Put yours down.
O'BRIEN: You first.
GARAK: Put it down, or say goodbye to the Ferengi.
NOG: Don't do it, Chief.
GARAK: He has nothing to worry about. I'm not going to shoot an unarmed  man. What fun would that be?
GARAK: You wouldn't happen to have another one, would you?
GARAK: Naughty, naughty.
O'BRIEN: Your turn.
GARAK: I admit I'm tempted to end this right now, But that would be  depriving myself of too much enjoyment.
GARAK: I'm disappointed, Chief. I expected to see the bloodlust in your  eyes but all I see is fear.
GARAK: Maybe it's true. Maybe you're not a soldier anymore.
O'BRIEN: You're right. I'm an engineer.
O'BRIEN: Are you okay, Nog?
NOG: I'm all right, sir.
NOG: Is he dead? Did you kill him?
O'BRIEN: No. I didn't.
BASHIR: He should be all right in a few days. I've  neutralised the psychotropic compound that was affecting his nervous  system.
O'BRIEN: He looks so peaceful. It's hard to believe he's the same man  who attacked us.
BASHIR: In a way, he's not. The drug brought out the worst parts of him  and allowed them to take over. He wasn't in control of his actions.
O'BRIEN: Can I talk to him?
BASHIR: For a minute.
O'BRIEN: I thought you might want to know that we salvaged the plasma  manifold. It's being installed right now.
GARAK: Mission accomplished.
O'BRIEN: I guess it didn't exactly go the way any of us expected. You  know there's going to be an inquest.
GARAK: Yes, I've been told that. Chief, I was hoping to ask a favour.
O'BRIEN: Don't worry. Once they know the facts
GARAK: It's not about that. I'd like you to express my deepest regrets  to Amaro's wife. I'd talk to her myself, but I'm not sure she'd welcome  that.
O'BRIEN: I'll tell her.
GARAK: I'd appreciate it.
O'BRIEN: Julian tells me the blast broke a couple of your ribs.
GARAK: Well, it could have been worse. If I'd been any closer to that  phaser, it would have killed me.
O'BRIEN: Don't take this the wrong way, but that was the plan.
GARAK: I understand.
O'BRIEN: I'll see you around.
