O'BRIEN: What's funny is where the files were  located, right there in Ops protocols.
DAX: The encryption system was extremely easy to break.
SISKO: So they wanted us to find these.
DAX: Or they didn't care.
SISKO: Well, there's nothing of strategic value here, just personal  logs and some files on Bajoran terrorists. But it is a glimpse into the  Cardassian mind.
O'BRIEN: You might want to warn Kira before she sees her file.
KIRA:  Warn me? About what?
SISKO: Oh, er, Dax and Mister O'Brien discovered some of the last  Prefect's personal files. There's a file on you. You may find it  disappointing.
KIRA: I'm a big girl, Commander.
BASHIR : Bashir to Sisko.
SISKO: Sisko here.
BASHIR : I'm at airlock fourteen, Commander. I think you'd better  get down here.
SISKO: What's the problem
SISKO : Doctor?
BASHIR : Well, I was about to begin off-loading some medical  specimens from the Bajoran transport
BASHIR : And, well, the Kai is here.
SISKO: Kai Opaka. Why would she be here?
BASHIR : She says you once offered her a tour of the station.
KIRA: A minor operative whose activities are limited to running errands  for the terrorist leaders?
SISKO: Major, when you're through feeling underappreciated, perhaps  you'd join me in welcoming the Kai aboard.
BASHIR: You say she's never been here before?
SISKO: She's never even left Bajor before.
BASHIR: Excuse me for saying so, Commander, but she looks preoccupied.
KIRA: Is something wrong, Opaka?
OPAKA: Contemplating prophecy.
KIRA: It's interesting you chose this viewport. The wormhole is just  out there.
BASHIR: It's a spectacular sight to see.
SISKO: Unfortunately, it can only be seen when a ship enters it or  exits. But there's nothing scheduled for today.
OPAKA: A shame.
SISKO: Sisko to O'Brien.
O'BRIEN : Go ahead Commander.
SISKO: Prepare the Yangtzee Kiang for launch, Chief. Kira and I are  taking the Kai through the wormhole.
O'BRIEN : Right away, sir.
OPAKA: Thank you.
SISKO: I didn't want to keep you from your duties, Doctor.
BASHIR: It's a slow day.
SISKO: All right. This way.
SISKO: Is the ship ready, Chief?
O'BRIEN: All prepped and ready for departure, Commander. Ma'am
SISKO: After you.
OPAKA: You have a child, don't you?
O'BRIEN: I do. I have a little girl, ma'am.
OPAKA: Yes.  Would you give this to her for me.
SISKO: We'll be entering the wormhole in about a  minute.
OPAKA: Thank you again for indulging me.
KIRA: Not at all, Opaka. You honour us with your presence.
SISKO: Yangtzee Kiang to DS Nine. Estimated time of return, fourteen  hundred hours.
DAX : Logged in We'll expect you then.
KIRA: Flight stabilisation at maximum.
SISKO: Here we go.
BASHIR: Spectacular, isn't it?
OPAKA: More than I imagined.
SISKO: My smoothest ride yet, Major.
BASHIR: There's Idran, the closest system. It's a ternary star.
OPAKA: A doorway into the unknown.
SISKO: The other side of the galaxy, to be precise. The Gamma quadrant  is seventy thousand light years from Bajor. It would take our fastest  starship over sixty seven years to get here.
OPAKA: I'm glad I got the chance to see it.
SISKO: You'll be seeing what this wormhole is worth to Bajor in a few  years.
OPAKA: If that is to be my fate, Commander.
KIRA: Should I reverse course?
OPAKA: So soon?
SISKO: There's not much else to show you yet.
OPAKA: Prophecy can often be vague, Commander. That's why we must test  it.
SISKO: I don't understand, Opaka.
OPAKA: You may return.
SISKO: Take us back to the wormhole, Major.
KIRA: Coming about. Sensors are picking up a narrow band subspace  signal.
SISKO: What do you make of it?
KIRA: Just a long stream of statistical data followed by a request for  reply. I'm not reading any response.
SISKO: Launch a class two probe. We'll follow it up later.
OPAKA: You're not going to investigate it now?
SISKO: I'm not sure that's a good idea.
OPAKA: Because of my presence?
KIRA: There's no telling what it may be.
OPAKA: Please, Commander. I don't get out often.
SISKO: Can you get a fix on the source, Major?
KIRA: Point three five light years, bearing two two nine mark four one.
SISKO: I guess we'd better take a look.
KIRA: This is definitely the origin of the signal. I'm having trouble  pinpointing the source. It's not coming from the surface.
SISKO: There's your answer. A network of artificial satellites. One of  them looks like it's malfunctioning. Its orbit is unstable. I'd bet the  signals we picked up were from the system trying to repair it.
BASHIR: Commander, sensors indicate lifeforms localised in twelve  square kilometres on the moon's surface. They may be humanoid, sir
SISKO: Humanoid? Can you verify that?
BASHIR: I can't resolve the biopatterns. There's too much interference.
SISKO: Take us in a little closer.
KIRA: We're being scanned by one of the satellites. I don't like this.  It's heading toward us.
SISKO: Shields up!
KIRA: Reading a significant energy build-up in the satellite. Six  hundred megawatts, nine hundred, it's firing.
KIRA: Shields are down. Forward thrusters are gone. We're losing power.
SISKO: Attempting to compensate with secondary boosters.
KIRA: Impulse generators failing.
SISKO: Hold on, we're going down. Check contingency fuel cell output.
KIRA: Holding at sixty-five percent.
SISKO: Doctor, watch the hull temperature.
BASHIR: Aye, sir.
KIRA: Stabilising attitude control response.
SISKO: Pitching up to twenty degrees.
BASHIR: Hull temperature nine hundred C, nine fifty, eleven hundred.
KIRA: We're holding profile.
BASHIR: Twelve hundred C. Thirteen.
SISKO: Ejecting antimatter pod.
KIRA: Pitching up to sixty degrees. Prepare for final braking  manoeuvres.
SISKO: Brace for impact!
BASHIR: Commander. Pulmonary collapse. Her upper thoracic vertebrae  have been crushed.
KIRA: Stay with us, Opaka. Stay with us.
BASHIR: I'm sorry.
KIRA: Ahn-kay ya, ay-ya vasu. Coh-ma-ra, di-nay-ya. Ahn-kay ya, ay-ya  vasu.
SISKO: We've got company.
ODO: Still no contact with Sisko?
DAX: Not yet.
ODO: But they're nearly three hours overdue.
O'BRIEN: Three and a half.
ODO: Opaka's people are on subspace to me every five minutes.
O'BRIEN: Tell them one of our runabouts found a trace of a warp eddy  current. It's got to be from their ship.
DAX: With any luck, we should be able to tell which direction they were  headed.
ODO: That's not going to satisfy them on Bajor. You have no idea what  the Kai means to them. When they heard Sisko had taken her into the  wormhole
O'BRIEN: Constable, tell them we're doing the best we can, okay?  Runabout pad C.
DAX: Have the Bajorans station a ship on the Gamma side, we'll stay in  close touch by subspace.
ENNIS: Move.
KIRA: I'm a Bajoran.
SISKO: I'm Commander Benjamin Sisko. Major Kira Nerys and Doctor Julian  Bashir.
SISKO: We were attacked by one of your satellites. Our ship was damaged  and we crashed.
SISKO: We were exploring. We've recently discovered a permanent  wormhole linking our quadrant of the galaxy with yours. I command a  space station at the mouth of that wormhole.
SISKO: We're just beginning to explore this sector. As I said, our home  is on the other side of the galaxy.
BASHIR: Major.
KIRA: I'm all right.
BASHIR: The hell you are. She needs treatment. I'd like my medical  case, if you don't mind.
BASHIR: For God's sake.
SISKO: Who are you fighting?
SISKO: Yes.
SISKO: We don't plan to be here long.
SISKO: No, but a rescue team is probably on it's way right now.
SISKO: You don't control the satellites?
SISKO: Then this is a penal colony
SISKO: Where are your doctors?
SISKO: You have no medical personnel? How do you survive without
BASHIR: This should make you feel better. Major, I'm so sorry. I  would've done anything.
KIRA: It's all so senseless. Opaka's always been a symbol of hope to  me. Her words gave our struggle meaning. And now she's dead. Her life  ends on some unknown moon, and for what?
SISKO: Doctor Bashir will give you any medical assistance he can, but  understand, we can't take sides in your battle.
SISKO: Seems we're in the middle of a pretty ugly war.
BASHIR: I gathered that.
SISKO: Shel-la says his people will protect us from their enemy in  exchange for your services.
BASHIR: Perhaps I can train some of them in the basics of field triage.
SISKO: Do whatever you can. How's the shoulder, Major?
KIRA: I'll live.
BASHIR: I still have to run a neuromuscular scan on her when we get  back.
SISKO: Don't count on a quick rescue. This moon is some kind of high  security prison colony.
SISKO: Major!
NOL: Let's go! Leave him!
KIRA: Commander!
SISKO: Put your phaser down, Kira.
BASHIR: Her vital signs appear to be normal, but I could have sworn she  was
KIRA: I was there, Doctor.
SISKO: Opaka, are you aware of what happened?
OPAKA: The surface was approaching so quickly, I must admit I closed my  eyes, Commander. There was a deafening whine. I felt the impact. A wall  of heat seemed to pass through me, and then nothing.
SISKO: After we crashed, we pulled you from the wreckage but you were
OPAKA: Dead.
SISKO: How do you explain this, Doctor?
BASHIR: Although she appears to be normal, her physiology has been  radically altered.
SISKO: How?
BASHIR: I'm not sure. The tricorder indicates some kind of  bio-mechanical presence at a cellular level.
SISKO: Bio-mechanical? You mean something artificial?
BASHIR: I wish I could tell you. Whatever it is, it seems to be  directly controlling her metabolic processes.
SISKO: Is she in any danger?
BASHIR: I'm sorry to keep saying it, Commander, but I really don't  know. If the runabout's computer were functional, I might be able to  run a full analysis.
KIRA: Commander. Over here.
BASHIR: It's okay. It's all right.
DAX: There's still no sign of them on any of the  long range scanners.
O'BRIEN: Not even a transponder signal. If they went down, we should at  least get something from their transponder. The warp eddy has traces of  meson particle emissions. That makes it a Starfleet power reactor.
DAX: The current shows that their heading was approximately two three  zero mark four.
O'BRIEN: Anything interesting in that direction?
DAX: An uncharted binary star system.
O'BRIEN: I guess it's time to chart it.
DAX: Setting a new course.
BASHIR: His reading's are the same as Opaka's.  Virtually every cell in his body shows signs of this bio-mechanical  presence. Now somehow it has literally brought him back to life.
SISKO: You've died before?
BASHIR: Sir, I'd like to return to the runabout and try to get the  computer up and running.
SISKO: Doctor, we're in the middle of a war.
BASHIR: Sir, this could be a breakthrough of unprecedented magnitude.
SISKO: It's too dangerous.
SISKO: He's not alone.
SISKO: How long have you been here?
SISKO: What is this punishment, Shel-la?
SISKO: What was your crime?
OPAKA: How did your fight begin?
OPAKA: Then what do you hope to gain by continuing?
SISKO: The Nol can say the very same thing.
KIRA: If you must fight your war, the least you can do is to learn to  fight it more effectively.
SISKO: Major, this is not our
KIRA: There were no guards at the entrance when we arrived. You have no  system to alert your forces of an attack. Your people are obviously  unprepared for fighting close-quartered.
SISKO: That's enough, Major.
KIRA: We're trapped on this moon with only his forces between us and  damnation. We have to defend ourselves to stay alive. Now, when the Nol  attack again we
SISKO: I said, that's enough!
KIRA: We have to be ready!
OPAKA: This is not your war, Kira.
SISKO: Listen to me, Shel-la. Our rescue is not going to take years.  Days, weeks maybe, but they will find us and then they'll penetrate the  defence net and transport us out of here.
SISKO: We'd be willing to transport all of you away from here if that's  what you want.
SISKO: For both sides, the Ennis and the Nol-Ennis. After you leave,  you can go wherever you want, but end this nightmare. Stop fighting  long enough for all of us to get off this moon.
SISKO: Ask him.
SISKO: What do you care about? If you want to end the suffering of your  people, then at least try. Set up a meeting with this Zlangco. Talk  about this.
O'BRIEN: I'm not reading a single M Class planet in  the system. If they went down anywhere around here, they couldn't have  survived.
DAX: I'm not sure we can believe the scans, Chief. The star is putting  out abnormal levels of delta radiation.
O'BRIEN: That'd foul up our long range scanners.
DAX: We'll have to survey each planet, one at a time.
O'BRIEN: Not to mention two dozen or so moons and an asteroid belt.  Bloody needle in a haystack. A needle in a haystack. What we need is a  magnet.
DAX: A magnet?
O'BRIEN: Yeah. You want to pick a piece of metal out of the straw, you  use a magnet.
DAX: I don't think I'm following you, Chief.
O'BRIEN: Runabout hulls are made out of metallic composites that  interact with magnetic fields. We could send out a few probes to scan  the system for those specific magnetic resonance patterns. If Sisko's  runabout is in the system, we might pick up a fluctuation in the  hysteresis curve.
DAX: The magnetic deflection of a runabout's hull is extremely weak.  The probes will never be able to detect it.
O'BRIEN: They will, if I can outfit them with a differential  magnetomer.
DAX: A differential magnetomer. I've never heard of a differential  magnetomer. How does it work?
O'BRIEN: I'll let you know as soon as I've finished making one.
BASHIR: Nice work, Julian.
SISKO: Good. When.
KIRA: What if they use the opportunity to set a trap?
SISKO: Major Kira will be staying here with the Kai.
OPAKA: You can't bury it, Kira.
KIRA: What?
OPAKA: Do you recognise yourself in these people?
KIRA: Me? No, not at all, I. They're content to die. I've always fought  to stay alive. I don't want you to have the wrong impression of me,  Opaka.
OPAKA: Jus what impression do you think I have?
KIRA: That I enjoy any of this. I don't enjoy fighting. Yes, I've  fought my entire life, but for a good cause, for our freedom, our  independence. And it was brutal and ugly and I. But that's over for me  now. That's not who I am. I don't want you to think that I am this  violent person without a soul, without a conscience. That is not who I  am.
OPAKA: Don't deny the violence inside of you, Kira. Only when you  accept it can you move beyond it.
KIRA: I've known nothing but violence since I was child.
OPAKA: In the eyes of the Prophets, we are all children. Bajor has much  to learn from peace.
KIRA: I'm afraid the Prophets won't forgive me.
OPAKA: They're just waiting for you to forgive yourself.
COMPUTER: Twenty-two minutes into launch. All  readings within normal parameters.
DAX: Probe B approaching planet six. Three moons. No change in the  hysteresis curve. Probe C approaching planet seven. No change.
O'BRIEN: What the hell would they be doing here anyway. It's a waste of  time. They could be twenty light years from here and we wouldn't have  the first clue.
DAX: Probe A approaching planet three. One moon. Chief.
COMPUTER: Probe A measuring a point zero zero one two fluctuation in  the hysteresis curve.
O'BRIEN: It's the third planet.
DAX: No, look, it isn't. We're picking up something from its moon.
O'BRIEN: Laying in a new course, full impulse.
SISKO: Any progress, Doctor?
BASHIR: Yes, sir. I've got the computer up, more or less. It's  processing the data now. I can already confirm that these microbes are  artificial. rather like nanites in a way. I should have a complete  analysis from the computer in a few minutes. What's going on?
SISKO: Talks about a cease fire.
BASHIR: No kidding. How'd you arrange that?
SISKO: I told them that we'd transport them off this moon.
BASHIR: Isn't that a bit like assisting a jailbreak?
SISKO: I don't need you to interpret the prime directive for me,  Doctor.
BASHIR: Yes, of course. I only meant
SISKO: Whatever crimes they've committed they've paid for a hundred  times over. They've been altered somehow and been abandoned by their  world. I believe the Federation would recognise them as separate and  unique.
BASHIR: Yes, sir. Well, I should be checking on that analysis.
ZLANGCO: So, you are the leader of the aliens.
SISKO: Benjamin Sisko, Commander of a Federation space station.
ZLANGCO: Federation?
ZLANGCO: It matters to me.
SISKO: The Federation is made up of over a hundred planets who have  allied themselves for mutual scientific, cultural and defensive  benefits. The mission that my people and I are on is to explore the  galaxy.
ZLANGCO: Such a noble purpose. There'll be no reward for our release,  you know.
ZLANGCO: A fool who always manages to outwit you, Shel-la, as I have  proven over and over again.
SISKO: If you've had enough of this, then make your leaders stop and  listen. Your only reason to live is to make each other suffer. If  you've had enough of suffering, then make them stop. I'm not here to be  a mediator, but if you ask for an alternative I'll give you one.
ZLANGCO: We're listening.
SISKO: In a matter of days, when our rescue party arrives, I can  arrange to transport you and your people off this moon, if both sides  can only cooperate until then.
SISKO: If that's what you wish.
ZLANGCO: The two of you seem to have discussed this plan in detail.
ZLANGCO: Explain why you choose to ally yourself with the Ennis.
SISKO: We have allied ourselves with no one.
ZLANGCO: One of your people fired a weapon at us.
SISKO: We were defending ourselves.
ZLANGCO: I think you're lying. I don't know the alien, but I know  Shel-la. I know how his mind works. I promise you this is an Ennis  trick to lure our entire population out of hiding so they can be  slaughtered.
SISKO: That's not true.
ZLANGCO: Then the Ennis are surely willing to make the first gesture of  peace. Let them bring all of their people out of hiding first to prove  their honourable intention.
ZLANGCO: No more than I would let an Ennis go free.
BASHIR: I'm sorry, Commander, but I've discovered we can't afford to  die here. Not even once.
O'BRIEN: It's some kind of artificial satellite system. That's what our  probe must have picked up.
DAX: Our sensors are reading lifeforms on the surface, Chief. I think  some of them are human.
O'BRIEN: If the ship's down there, why wouldn't the transponder be  sending out a
DAX: We're being scanned
O'BRIEN: Increasing orbital altitude.
DAX: What are you thinking?
O'BRIEN: The only thing that could block out a transponder signal is a  broad band damping field. That requires a low level satellite system  like this one. Suddenly we're being scanned by these satellites, so
DAX: Maybe they had something to do with our missing runabout.
O'BRIEN: Exactly. See, they're putting out a mutual induction field  that would block out ninety nine percent of all transmissions to and  from the surface.
DAX: Is there any way for us to get a comm. line through the field?
O'BRIEN: Well, I've got one percent to work with, don't I?
BASHIR: The analysis is very clear. Once the  microbes have restored a body after death, that body becomes  permanently dependent on them for all cellular functions.
SISKO: Permanently?
BASHIR: It gets worse. The designers made them environment specific. If  the microbes are removed from this ecosystem, they'll stop functioning.
SISKO: So if we transport anyone off this planet, we kill them.
BASHIR: I'm afraid so.
SISKO: The Kai?
O'BRIEN : Rio Grande to Sisko. Do you read me? This is O'Brien,  come in.
SISKO: Go ahead, Chief. I can barely read you.
DAX : Is everyone all right?
SISKO: We're alive, but the Yangtzee Kiang was destroyed. Will you be  able to beam us up?
O'BRIEN : Not quite yet, Commander.
O'BRIEN: we've got to find a way to penetrate this  network of satellites. They're making it impossible to lock on to  anything down there.
SISKO : Understood.
SISKO: But those satellites will come after you if  you get too close. They're armed. One of them cut us down without any  trouble at all.
O'BRIEN : Yeah, we figured as much.
SISKO: Let me know before you're ready to make an attempt.
O'BRIEN : Acknowledged. Rio Grande out.
SISKO: We have to talk to the Kai.
KIRA: Is there a cease-fire?
SISKO: Neither side took it seriously.
OPAKA: I'm not at all surprised. You were right, Kira. They don't know  how to do anything else but die. They've forgotten how to live.
SISKO: The Rio Grande has made contact. Dax and O'Brien are in orbit.  They're working on a way to penetrate the defence system.
OPAKA: I'll be staying, Commander.
KIRA: What?
OPAKA: This is the answer to all the prophecies of my life.
KIRA: It's the wrong answer, Opaka. You can't stay here.
OPAKA: I didn't know how or why, but when we came through the wormhole,  I knew I wouldn't be returning. You must tell our people, Kira, that I  have answered the call of the Prophets. I was brought here because it  is time for these people to begin their healing process, just as you  were brought here to begin yours.
O'BRIEN: You know, all we really need to do is find  a way to create a gap in the net.
DAX: Maybe a photon would destroy one of the satellites.
O'BRIEN: Maybe, but you'd think they'd build a defence network with  that in mind. You shoot one, the rest might swarm up like Vayan horn  flies. We need to go for something simpler. all I need is about a  fifteen percent increase in the opening in the net. Rio Grande to  Sisko.
SISKO : Go ahead, Chief.
O'BRIEN: We're going to try to poke a hole up here, sir, if you're  about ready to end your stay.
SISKO : Only three of us are coming back. Kai Opaka is remaining.
DAX: Benjamin, please confirm. Did you say we're not transporting the  Kai?
SISKO : That's correct. I'll explain later.
O'BRIEN: We'll need a few minutes, Commander.
O'BRIEN : Rio Grande out.
BASHIR: My analysis of these microbes that keep you alive showed that  if you were to leave the moon, you would die.
BASHIR: Commander, I find myself caught in a moral dilemma. As much as  I am dedicated to the preservation of life, I wonder if we shouldn't  help these people end this torture.
SISKO: How could you do that?
BASHIR: Anything that can be programmed can be reprogrammed. If I could  disable the mechanism in these microbes, they should no longer function  when someone is killed, and these people would finally be able to die.
KIRA: You really think the fear of death will end the fighting? It  never has in any other war.
O'BRIEN : Rio Grande to Sisko. Stand by for transport.
SISKO: Ready.
DAX: Coordinates set.
O'BRIEN: Launching probe.
DAX: Twelve seconds to intercept.
O'BRIEN: Come on, come on, go for it.
DAX: One of the satellites is breaking orbit, moving toward the probe.
O'BRIEN: That's it.
DAX: The satellite is showing a power buildup, about eight hundred  megawatts.
DAX: Probe destroyed
O'BRIEN: Rio Grange to Sisko. Trying to lock on, Commander.
O'BRIEN : Establishing pattern lock.
SISKO: Energise when ready, Chief.
SISKO: Opaka, if we can ever find a way
OPAKA: My work is here now, Commander. But your pagh and mine will  cross again.
O'BRIEN : Energising.
