BASHIR: Lot of kick for a forty five Dom.
CAPRICE: Thank you, Mister. Mister?
BASHIR: Bashir. Julian Bashir.
CAPRICE: Who's that?
BASHIR: An uninvited guest. Excuse me.
BASHIR: Nice tux.
GARAK: Thank you.
BASHIR: Now get out.
GARAK: But Doctor, I've only just arrived.
BASHIR: Breaking into a holosuite during someone's programme is not  only rude, it's illegal. I should call Odo and have you arrested.
GARAK: What an extreme reaction that would be. You must be very  embarrassed by this programme.
BASHIR: I'm not embarrassed. I'm annoyed that you have intruded into my  privacy.
GARAK: Privacy, indeed. I think it goes far deeper than that, Doctor.  Ever since you received this new programme, you've spent virtually  every free hour in the holosuite. But you haven't told anyone what the  programme is.
BASHIR: Am I supposed to?
GARAK: No, no, no. But you're such a, forgive me, a talkative man and  it's so unusual for you to have secrets.
BASHIR: I must have picked up that habit from you. Now, if you will  excuse me.
GARAK: Is this fantasy of yours really truly revealing of your inner  psyche?
BASHIR: What?
GARAK: Is that why you're so protective? Are you afraid that I'll find  out some humiliating secrets about the real Julian Bashir?
BASHIR: This is a fantasy. I'm not hiding anything.
GARAK: Well, if you've nothing to hide, then why not let me stay?
BASHIR: All right. Now I have to be at work in two hours and I'd like  to enjoy myself, so keep quiet and don't rain on my parade.
GARAK: Your parade?
BASHIR: Never mind.
GARAK: Don't worry, Doctor. I can be quite discreet. You'll barely know  I'm here.
BASHIR: Good.
GARAK: But if I may make one observation.
BASHIR: Garak.
GARAK: I only want to point out that your lovely companion is leaving.  Odd. She seemed so interested in your advances just a moment ago. I  wonder what scared her away? Oh, no. I do apologise. You must be  incensed. In fact, if I were in your shoes, I would grab a bottle of  champagne and shoot me.
BASHIR: I can see I'm going to regret this.
GARAK: Don't worry, Doctor. We're going to have a wonderful time. After  all, what could possibly go wrong?
GARAK: You live here?
BASHIR: That's right.
GARAK: Decorate it yourself?
BASHIR: The decor is appropriate for the period. Nineteen sixty-four.
GARAK: How did you pronounce the name of this city?
BASHIR: Kowloon. It's part of Hong Kong.
GARAK: And the nightclub was in Paris, which, if I remember correctly,  was on the other side of the planet.
LUVSITT: Mister Bashir, I didn't expect you home so soon.
BASHIR: I decided to leave Paris a little early. Allow me to introduce  my friend, Mister Garak. Garak, this is my personal valet, Mona  Luvsitt.
LUVSITT: Pleased to make your acquaintance. Would you like to change  into something more comfortable?
BASHIR: That would be perfect. See if we can find Mister Garak  something as well.
LUVSITT: I'll see what I can do. Would you like me to put this away? 
BASHIR: Please. Care for a drink?
GARAK: Not just yet.
GARAK: Is she your valet or your personal assassin?
BASHIR: Valet. Mona is very capable. She speaks seven languages, has  degrees in biology, chemistry, physics, can fly anything from a jet to  a helicopter and makes an excellent martini.
MONA: Is there anything else I can do for you?
BASHIR: I'll let you know.
GARAK: I take it your character is some kind of rich dilettante with a  fascination for women and weapons.
BASHIR: Actually, my character is far more disreputable. I'm a spy.
GARAK: A spy? And you live here?
BASHIR: Yes. I work for one of the nation states of this era, Great  Britain, which is battling various other nations in what is called the  Cold War. This apartment, my clothes, weapons, even my valet were  provided to me by my government.
GARAK: I think I joined the wrong intelligence service.
SISKO: Orinoco to Deep Space Nine. This is Captain  Sisko requesting landing clearance.
EDDINGTON : Welcome back, Captain.
EDDINGTON: You're cleared to set down on landing  pad three. How was the conference?
SISKO: Informative, but I've got a ship full of  tired officers here. I think we'll all be happy to be in our own beds  tonight.
EDDINGTON : I can imagine.
EDDINGTON: There's some message traffic from  Starfleet Command for you to look at
EDDINGTON : But nothing
O'BRIEN: Captain, there's some kind of power surge in the warp core.
SISKO: Looks like a fluctuation in the plasma coils. We'd better take  the warp core offline.
O'BRIEN: I can't. There's something wrong with the command control  systems. I'm completely locked out.
WORF: Magnetic interlocks are failing. Warp core breach is imminent.
SISKO: Eject the warp core.
KIRA: The ejection system isn't responding.
O'BRIEN: Correction. The ejection system is missing. We've been  sabotaged.
WORF: Ten seconds to warp core breach.
EDDINGTON: Orinoco, cut your impulse engines and  drop your deflectors. We're going to try to beam you out of there.
SISKO: Acknowledged. Cut main power.
EDDINGTON: I've locked on. Energising.
ODO: What happened?
EDDINGTON: Captain Sisko's runabout exploded while I was trying to beam  them back. Some of the energy travelled back along the transporter beam  and blew up the primary energising coils.
ODO: Do we still have their patterns?
EDDINGTON: Yes. They're in the buffer. But the patterns will start to  degrade if not used immediately. We need to store the patterns  somewhere.
ODO: This is more complicated than just an ordinary transporter  pattern. We're going to have to preserve all the neural signatures of  everyone on that runabout. Do you know how much memory it would take to  save just one person's neural signature, much less five?
EDDINGTON: I don't think we have any choice. Computer, I need to store  all data currently in the transporter pattern buffer. Where can I save  it?
COMPUTER: There is insufficient computer memory to save the data.
ODO: The pattern buffer's beginning to lose coherence. The patterns  will start to degrade any second now.
EDDINGTON: Computer, what if we wiped all computer memory in every  system on the station and then stored the patterns?
COMPUTER: That procedure has not been tested. It cannot be predicted.
ODO: The buffer is depolarising.
EDDINGTON: Computer, this is a command priority override. Wipe all  computer memory necessary in order to save the patterns from the  buffer. Authorisation Eddington zero six five alpha enable.
COMPUTER: Executing command override.
ODO: Tricorder. The buffer's lost coherence. The patterns are gone. Did  the computer save them in time?
EDDINGTON: I think so, but I'm not sure where.
GARAK: Thank you, my dear. Yes, this should do nicely, although I'm not  too sure about the collar.
BASHIR: It's perfect.
LUVSITT: I'll have these cleaned right away.
GARAK: Isn't this a rather ostentatious life for a spy?
BASHIR: It's all part of my cover. I'm posing as a wealthy jet-setter,  so I have to act like one.
GARAK: Jet-setter?
BASHIR: People of this era used to travel in
KIRA: Julian. I must have fallen asleep.
BASHIR: Very funny. Who else did you invite along with you today?
GARAK: This wasn't my idea. Major?
KIRA: Colonel, actually. Colonel Anastasia Komananov, KGB. Oh, Julian,  I never thought I'd see you alive again. Not after you fell out of that  dirigible over Iceland.
BASHIR: I had a parachute, and there was a submarine there waiting for  me. But how do you know about that? Have you been downloading my  holosuite programmes?
KIRA: Oh Julian, you are not well. Let's lie down.
GARAK: I must say, Major Kira's certainly throwing herself into the  role, Doctor.
BASHIR: Nerys, please.
KIRA: Who is this Major Nerys Kira?
BASHIR: Kira Nerys, actually.
GARAK: Perhaps this isn't Major Kira after all.
BASHIR: I'm beginning to think you're right. Computer restore the image  of Colonel Komananov back to its original parameters.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. The character parameters of Colonel  Komananov are correct.
GARAK: I'd say someone's been tampering with your programme, Doctor.
KIRA: Julian, we don't have time for games. There is much to talk  about.
BASHIR: Excuse me. Computer freeze programme.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Computer control has been disrupted due to  station-wide  emergency.
GARAK: Emergency?
BASHIR: Bashir to Ops. What's going on?
ODO: We've got our hands full right now, Doctor. Stand by.
EDDINGTON: Odo, wait. Doctor, where are you? And do you have access to  a working computer console?
BASHIR : I'm in holosuite three.
BASHIR: The program's running but it won't comply  with my commands.
EDDINGTON: The programme is still running?
KIRA: I demand to know who you are talking to!
KIRA : Julian, tell me.
ODO: That sounded like Kira.
BASHIR : Not exactly.
BASHIR: Someone has replaced one of the characters  with the image of Major Kira. What's going on?
EDDINGTON : Stay where you are
EDDINGTON: Doctor. Keep the programme running for  now. We'll get right back to you.
KIRA: Julian, talk to me. Tell me what is  happening.
BASHIR: I'm not sure myself.
EDDINGTON : Ops to Bashir.
EDDINGTON: Doctor, whatever you do, don't end that  programme.
BASHIR: Why not?
EDDINGTON : There's been a transporter accident.
EDDINGTON: We believe the holosuite memory core is  holding the transporter patterns of five crewmembers. If you stop the  programme, their patterns
EDDINGTON : Might be lost.
BASHIR: How could that happen?
EDDINGTON : It's a long story.
EDDINGTON: But at this moment the patterns of  Captain Sisko, Kira, Worf, Dax and O'Brien exist only in the holosuite  database.
ODO: Don't leave the holosuite. If you do, it might disrupt the  holo-imaging array and right now we can't take any chances. You'll have  to stay in there and keep the programme running for now.
BASHIR: Understood.
ODO : We'll get back to you, Doctor.
KIRA: Oh, Julian, you are so tense.
BASHIR: It's been one of those days
KIRA: I wish I could relax you but I am here on business.
KIRA: In the last twenty-four hours, a series of earthquakes have  struck cities from Vladivostok to New York. Our seismologists have  analysed the earthquakes and come to the conclusion that they are  artificial.
GARAK: So? That's not so difficult. One only has to
BASHIR: Garak.
KIRA: Your friend seems to know something.
BASHIR: Believe me, he knows nothing.
KIRA: If you say so. Because of the global nature of this crisis, my  government and yours have decided to cooperate. We will be working very  closely.
BASHIR: I'm sure we will.
KIRA: Our assignment is to find out who caused the earthquakes and what  they want.
GARAK: A rather vague assignment.
KIRA: We do have one clue. One of the world's leading seismologists,  Professor Honey Bare, has vanished. We believe she has been kidnapped.
KIRA: I didn't think she was your type.
BASHIR: You said she's been kidnapped.
KIRA: We think so. She disappeared only a few hours before the first  quake struck New York City.
GARAK: Doctor, we're in the middle of an emergency. Is this really the  time to be playing games?
BASHIR: Look.
GARAK: Interesting.
BASHIR: If Honey Bare is killed, the computer will erase her character  from its programme. Now since the programme thinks that Dax is Honey  Bare
GARAK: The computer would actually be erasing Commander Dax's pattern.
BASHIR: Kira, erm, Ana. Do you have any idea where Professor Bare is?
KIRA: She was last seen
BASHIR: I'll be right with you, Mona.
GARAK: Chief.
BASHIR: No. It's Falcon.
O'BRIEN: Nice to see you, Mister Bashir. Now I think we have a little  unfinished business.
O'BRIEN: Surprised to see me, Mister Bashir?
BASHIR: You could say that.
O'BRIEN: Well, you should use something a little more lethal than a  champagne cork. Something like this.
KIRA: Wait! Wait, please. Let us have one last kiss.
O'BRIEN: Why not? I've always been a romantic at heart.
KIRA:  Earring.
O'BRIEN: All right, Bashir. That's enough.
GARAK: Interesting jewellry.
BASHIR: I bought those for Anastasia last Christmas. You're bleeding.
GARAK: The holosuite safeties must be off.
KIRA: Time to clip this bird's wings.
BASHIR: No!
KIRA: Niet! What are you doing?
BASHIR: We can't kill him.
KIRA: Julian, what are you saying? He's been trying to kill you for  nine years.
GARAK: I wouldn't dismiss her idea so quickly, Doctor.
BASHIR: But that's Miles.
GARAK: No. As you pointed out, he's Falcon, a hired assassin who's  going to do everything he can to kill you. And without the holosuite  safeties in place, he may do just that.
BASHIR: What do you want me to do? Kill him?
GARAK: I want you to stop treating this like a game where everything's  going to turn out all right in the end. Real spies have to make hard  choices. You want to save Dax? Fine. But you may not have the luxury of  saving everyone.
KIRA: Who is Dax?
GARAK: Eventually you may have to let someone die.
BASHIR: I'll deal with that situation if and when it happens. In the  meantime, we have to find Dax.
KIRA: Who is Dax?
BASHIR: Ana, I promise I'll explain everything later. Now, you said  Professor Bare had been kidnapped. Do you have any suspects?
KIRA: We believe that Doctor Noah is behind the abductions. During the  past two years, he has kidnapped an elite group of sixty artisans and  scientists from around the world. No one knows why or where he has  taken them, but our sources tell us that each of the missing people was  invited to meet Doctor Noah at a club in Paris shortly before they  disappeared.
BASHIR: The Club Ingénue?
KIRA: Da.
BASHIR: I had a feeling.  Sorry, my dear. I hope  you remember how to tie a bow-tie. We're going to Paris.
KIRA: Who is Dax?
ROM: I've had to make a few modifications to this holosuite over the  years.
EDDINGTON: A few? It's like a junkyard in here.
ROM: My brother won't let me buy new components so I've had to scavenge  for what I need.
QUARK: I'm barely breaking even on the holosuites as it is. If I had to  buy new equipment every time there was a glitch.
EDDINGTON: Where's the core memory interface?
ROM: Oh it's right behind the spatula.
EDDINGTON: The spatula?
ROM: It's made of a copper-ytterbium composite, the perfect plasma  conductor.
EDDINGTON: I've found them. All five of their physical patterns are in  here and they're stable.
ODO: Why here?
EDDINGTON: The holosuite is specifically designed to store highly  complex energy patterns. The computer's processing their physical  patterns as if they were holosuite characters. Trouble is, I'm not  reading any neural energy.
ROM: Neural energy has to be stored at the quantum level. The holosuite  can't handle that.
ODO: So if their physical bodies are stored here, where are their brain  patterns?
QUARK: Everywhere else. Their brain patterns are so large that they're  taking up every bit of computer memory on the station. Replicator  memory, weapons, life supports.
ODO: He may be right. So what do we do about it? How do we get them  back?
BASHIR: I'd like to see Doctor Noah. I have an invitation.
WORF: May I see your invitation?
BASHIR: Doctor Noah?
WORF: I am Duchamps. I am Doctor Noah's associate.
BASHIR: May I?
BASHIR: My name's Merriweather. Patrick Merriweather. And this is my  wife Anastasia. And my friend Mister Garak.
WORF: Charmed. Your invitation, Mister Merriweather?
BASHIR: I don't have one.
WORF: The Doctor does not like unexpected guests.
KIRA: I believe Doctor Noah would be very interested in meeting my  husband. He's one of the leading geologists in the world.
WORF: Now why would that interest Doctor Noah?
GARAK: We believe he's taken quite an interest in the sciences. After  all, he has invited several of the world's top scientists to this club.  Isn't that true?
BASHIR: I must say I feel a little insulted by being left out of such  an illustrious group.
WORF: How unfortunate. Of course, a meeting still can be arranged. For  a price.
BASHIR: Oh?
WORF: Five million francs.
BASHIR: No problem.
WORF: I do not understand. Where's the rest of your money?
BASHIR: Right in front of you. Shall we begin?
ODO: A Cardassian separatist group calling  themselves The True Way has claimed responsibility for sabotaging the  runabout.
EDDINGTON: Ever heard of them before?
ODO: They're opposed to the peace treaty, they blame the Federation for  Cardassia's economic and political troubles, et cetera, et cetera.  Until now, they've never committed any terrorist action to support  their beliefs. What have you found?
EDDINGTON: From what we can tell, Quark was right. The computer has  stored the neural energy patterns of everyone on the runabout  throughout the entire station.
QUARK: Don't everyone thank me at once.
ROM: What we need to do is re-integrate their neural patterns with  their physical patterns from the holosuite and rematerialise them.
EDDINGTON: I say we use the Defiant. Its power systems and computers  are independent of the station and it has its own transporter.
ROM: Sounds good. Except
EDDINGTON: Except what?
ROM: Well, my equipment isn't designed to interface with Starfleet  systems. I may have to make some modifications.
BASHIR: Card.
BASHIR: Nine. Five million francs.
WORF: You're quite a baccarat player, Mister Merriweather.
BASHIR: Baccarat and geology are my life. Now then, Mister Duchamps, I  believe we've met your conditions.
BASHIR: When do we leave?
WORF: Right now.
KIRA: что случилось? 
GARAK: Another decorator's nightmare. This era has a distinct lack of  taste.
BASHIR: Where are we?
SISKO: Welcome to Paradise, Mister Merriweather. I believe you've been  looking for me. My name is Hippocrates Noah.
SISKO: Mister Merriweather, I understand your field is geology.
BASHIR: That's right.
SISKO: Then I'm sure you can appreciate these stones in my most recent  acquisition.
BASHIR: A most striking display of rubies, tourmaline, sapphire, topaz.  Judging by the high chromium content in the rubies, I'd say they come  from the hydrothermal deposits on the Tibetan plateau. Which isn't  surprising, considering we're on the south eastern slope of Mount  Everest at about twenty two thousand feet, I should say.
SISKO: Twenty five actually.
BASHIR: You must not get many tourists.
SISKO: My guests and I place a premium on our privacy. We don't want  any unwelcomed guests, such as men sent by governments who disagree  with my political philosophy.
KIRA: And what is your philosophy? Are you some kind of anarchist?
SISKO: Quite the opposite. I believe in an orderly world. A far cry  from the chaos we find ourselves in today. We are building a new future  here. A new beginning for mankind. A new chapter in human history will  open right here on my island.
BASHIR: Island?
SISKO: Forgive me. Sometimes I do get ahead of myself. Allow me to  explain.
DAX: We're almost ready. I've programmed the laser sequence and I'm  making some last minute adjustments to a South American Site.
SISKO: I do have every confidence in you, my dear.
KIRA: She's working with him.
SISKO: You see, Mister Merriweather, I intend not only to create a new  future, I intend to create a new world. At each one of these points, I  have hidden a new form of laser. One that can penetrate the Earth's  crust down into the mantle itself.
BASHIR: The global earthquakes.
SISKO: Those were only tests. Soon I will activate all of these lasers  together, and when I do, they will produce worldwide earthquakes the  likes of which we have never been felt before.
GARAK: Killing everyone on the planet.
SISKO: More than that. There comes a time when a house has been so  damaged by termites that you must not only kill the termites but  demolish the house and build again. The quakes are only a minor side  effect. The real goal of this project is to have these lasers of mine  produce massive fissures in the Earth's crust, releasing millions of  tons of molten lava. Now, Mister Merriweather, you're the geologist.  Tell me what happens next.
BASHIR: Once that much lava is released, the tectonic plates would  begin to settle.
SISKO: And the surface of the planet will shrink, just like letting air  out of a balloon.
KIRA: But if the surface of the Earth shrinks, the oceans
BASHIR: Will cover the Earth. Diabolical.
SISKO: Visionary. I am going to let mankind begin anew, here on this  island paradise, the only place that will remain above water on my  brave new world. And that is why I have gathered the finest minds, the  very best that mankind has to offer. We will repopulate and start a new  human race. Pity you won't be able to join us.
BASHIR: Are you revoking my invitation?
SISKO: I intend to do more than that, Mister Bashir. Not only have I  brought the greatest minds to my mountain retreat, but I have also  hired the greatest protection that money can buy. I believe you already  know my newest employee.
EDDINGTON: Is all this really necessary?
ROM: It's the best I can do.
EDDINGTON: How long until we're ready to try retrieving their patterns?
ROM: I'd say another hour.
EDDINGTON: O'Brien's going to kill me when he gets back.
SISKO: This is one of a seventy four lasers I've deployed around the  world. When I throw that switch, it'll begin a five minute countdown  that even I can't stop. Once the laser fires, the whole cave will be  filled with molten lava.
BASHIR: Where's Colonel Komananov?
SISKO: She's a spirited individual. Young, healthy. We'll need women  like her to help propagate the second human race.
SISKO: Try to stay cool, Mister Bashir.
GARAK: So what do we do now?
BASHIR: I'm thinking.
GARAK: Think faster. I don't know if I've made this explicit to you or  not, Doctor, but I really don't want to die chained to a twentieth  century laser. I think it's time to end this programme.
BASHIR: We can't do that. We'd wipe out the patterns of Sisko and the  others.
GARAK: Then may I suggest calling Commander Eddington and having him  send someone in here to remove these handcuffs?
BASHIR: You heard what Odo said. We don't know what'll happen if we  interrupt the holo-imaging array by calling for the doors. The entire  programme might collapse and kill them all.
GARAK: Well I only know one thing for sure, Doctor, that when the  molten lava begins pouring into this cave, you and I are going to be  very uncomfortable.
GARAK: Who's that?
BASHIR: It's our ticket out of here.
BASHIR: What a waste. That no one can see what a beautiful woman you  are.
GARAK: Is that your plan?
BASHIR: Shut up. Noah only wants you for your mind. He can't appreciate  the woman inside you. Honey, would you grant me one last request and  take off those glasses?
DAX: Like this?
BASHIR: You know, your hair would look so much better if it were free.
GARAK: I must say, Doctor, this is more than I ever wanted to know  about your fantasy life.
BASHIR: There. That's the last thing I want to remember before I die.
DAX: Thank you.
GARAK: I'd give you both some privacy if I could.
GARAK: Great plan. Now can we call Eddington?
BASHIR: That will not be necessary.  Honey  has given me all we need.
GARAK: Kiss the girl, get the key. They never taught me that in the  Obsidian Order.
BASHIR: Come on!
BASHIR: We have to get to the control room.
GARAK: What?
BASHIR: If this programme ends like the others, either Komananov or  Honey Bare will be killed by Doctor Noah. The other's supposed to end  up with me. In either case, we have to make sure that both of them  survive.
GARAK: You expect to take on Noah and his men with that?
BASHIR: It's my fantasy. Trust me.
GARAK: No! This has gone far enough. It's time to cut our losses.
BASHIR: We can't do that. Kira or Dax might
GARAK: Yes, they might be killed, and that is unfortunate. But there  comes a point when the odds are against you and the only reasonable  course of action is to quit!
BASHIR: Quit?
BASHIR: Is that what they taught you in the Obsidian Order? To give up  when things get tough?
GARAK: As a matter of fact, they did. That's why I've managed to stay  alive while most of my colleagues are dead. Because I know when to walk  away. And that time is now. And you'd know that, Doctor, if you were a  real intelligence agent.
BASHIR: Oh, so that's what this is all about. The fact that my fantasy  happens to step on what you consider to be your private domain. Well  what's the matter, Garak? Have I bruised your ego by play-acting at  something you take so very seriously?
GARAK: That's something else you've yet to learn, Doctor. A real  intelligence agent has no ego, no conscience, no remorse. Only a sense  of professionalism. And mine is telling me that it's time to go.  Computer!
BASHIR: Don't.
GARAK: Or what? You'll kill me?
BASHIR: If you call for the exit, you might kill Sisko and the others,  and I'm not prepared to risk that.
GARAK: I'm afraid I don't believe you'll pull that trigger.
BASHIR: I wouldn't be so sure about that.
GARAK: It's time to face reality, Doctor. You're a man who dreams of  being a hero because you know, deep down, that you're not. I'm no hero  either, but I do know how to make a choice, and I'm choosing to save  myself. Computer, show me the mechanism
BASHIR: You'll be fine. It's just a flesh wound.
GARAK: That was awfully close. What if you'd killed me?
BASHIR: What makes you think I wasn't trying?
GARAK: Doctor, I do believe there's hope for you yet.
BASHIR: I'm so relieved. Now, we have to get to the control room. Are  you coming or not?
GARAK: Well, who am I to question Julian Bashir, secret agent? Lead on.
BASHIR: Everybody stay where you are.
DAX: Julian.
BASHIR: Your weapon, Doctor Noah.
SISKO: This is your doing. You let them go.
DAX: I'm sorry, Doctor.
KIRA: Julian, you are just in time. He was about to activate the final  sequence of the lasers. Kill him, Julian.
BASHIR: Not this time, Ana.
KIRA: Well then, I will.
BASHIR: No!
KIRA: What are you doing?
WORF: Making a mistake.
SISKO: Thank you, Mister Duchamps.
EDDINGTON : Eddington to Bashir. We're going to try rematerialising  their patterns in about two minutes.
BASHIR: Understood.
SISKO: What is it you understand, Mister Bashir? That you should've  killed me when you had the chance? I agree. But then again, I suppose  it wouldn't be very heroic. I, on the other hand, have no pretensions  about the idea of being a hero.
BASHIR: Wait! Maybe I'm tired of being a hero. Maybe I've thought over  what you said and decided that you're absolutely right.
SISKO: About what?
BASHIR: Everything. The decadence of the world, the need for order. The  more I think about it, the more I realise that your way may be the only  way.
SISKO: Ha!
SISKO: You expect me to believe that? You are Julian Bashir. A man who  has spent his entire life dedicated to fighting against
BASHIR: Yes, but all that's about to end now, isn't it? You're going to  destroy this world and start a new one. What's the use of me continuing  to defend a doomed planet? Can you see the sense in that?
SISKO: No.
BASHIR: No. I'm an intelligence agent, and if there's any one thing  I've learnt, it is that there comes a point when the odds are against  you and there is no reasonable course of action but to quit. How do you  think I've managed to stay alive so long when all of my compatriots are  dead? It is because I have known when to walk away.
ROM: Rom to Ops. I'm ready. You can start  transferring the neural energy to the Defiant.
ODO : Acknowledged.
ODO: Beginning data transfer.
SISKO: You make a very interesting argument, Mister  Bashir. But I'm afraid I've been looking forward to killing you for a  long time.
BASHIR: You need to move beyond that. You need to start thinking about  your new world order. You may even need someone like me.
SISKO: If you think that by going over there you are going to destroy  my control console, you're wasting your time.
BASHIR: I don't intend to destroy your console, Doctor. I intend to use  it.
DAX: You've just activated the final laser sequence.
KIRA: You've destroyed the Earth.
ODO: Data transfer complete. I am re-establishing  computer control over the station.
O'BRIEN: It's working just as you planned. You've done it, Doctor.
SISKO: Yes. But somehow, I didn't expect to win. I suppose the only  thing left to do now is to kill you.
SISKO: What happened, Commander?
O'BRIEN: What did you do to my ship?
EDDINGTON: It's going to take some explaining. Eddington to Bashir.  We've got them, Doctor. You can leave
EDDINGTON : The holosuite now.
BASHIR: Thank you.
GARAK: Interesting. You saved the day by destroying the world.
BASHIR: I bet they didn't teach you that at the Obsidian Order.
GARAK: No, no. There was a great deal they didn't teach me. Like the  value of a good game of chance, or how indulging in fantasy keeps the  mind creative.
BASHIR: Lunch tomorrow?
GARAK: Of course. But why don't we have it at your place, in Hong Kong.  Unless, of course, this was your last mission.
BASHIR: Oh, I think it's safe to say that Julian Bashir, secret agent,  will return.
