KIRA: So, how small are they?
NOG: The miniaturisation process won't begin until the runabout reaches  the edge of the accretion disc.
KIRA: I see. And then they'll begin to shrink?
NOG: Yes, sir.
SISKO: Major, are you laughing at our investigation of this subspace  anomaly?
KIRA: No, sir.
WORF: The data collected here could provide Starfleet with the key to  creating transwarp corridors through space. It could give us a  substantial tactical advantage over the Dominion.
KIRA: It's very important research. What? I'm not laughing. Just  because we are shrinking three people to the size of coffee cups.
NOG: Smaller, actually.
WORF: I do not see what is so humourous about being small.
NOG: Neither do I.
SISKO: On screen.
NOG: Their visual signal's degrading, Captain. We have audio only.
SISKO: Go ahead, Rubicon.
DAX : We're about to enter the accretion disc.
SISKO: I wish were with you, old man.
DAX :  I'll send you a postcard. Tell  Worf I look forward to hearing his poem. I'll bet it'll be inspiring.  We'll talk to you again once we've left the accretion disc and reversed  the effects of the compression. Rubicon out.
SISKO: Good luck, Rubicon.
NOG: We've lost their signal, Captain.
SISKO: Thank you, Ensign. Mister Worf. Poem?
WORF: It is an ancient Klingon tradition to commemorate an important  event with a poem. Jadzia asked me to compose one for this occasion.
SISKO: Well, what have you got so far?
NOG: They've penetrated the accretion disc.
KIRA: Now is it my imagination, or did the kid just cover for him?
SISKO: This could be the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
WORF: They are getting smaller.
NOG: Even the space within their subatomic structure is shrinking.
KIRA: I wonder what it feels like.
O'BRIEN: I don't feel any smaller.
BASHIR: Well, believe it or not, you're about a metre tall and  shrinking fast. In a few minutes, you're going to be half the size of a  comm. badge.
O'BRIEN: There's a comforting thought.
BASHIR: The gamma ray flux is increasing. We should close the blast  shutters.
DAX: Take a last look. We're on sensors from here on.
O'BRIEN: Now you're certain we'll return to normal size once we clear  the anomaly?
DAX: Our probes did. You saw the data. Something wrong?
O'BRIEN: No, I'm fine. I'm just not in love with the idea of being  small. What are you smirking at? You're as small as I am.
BASHIR: Actually, you're sitting one point one four metres closer to  the focal point of the anomaly, which means you've shrunk point zero  four percent more than I have.
DAX: What was that?
O'BRIEN: The tractor beam's fluctuating. Something's wrong.
WORF: The Jem'Hadar are coming around for another pass.
KIRA: Radiation from the vortex must have masked their warp signature.
SISKO: Return fire, Mister Worf. Ensign, pull the Rubicon out of there.
WORF: Phasers are offline.
KIRA: We're a sitting duck as long as we're tethered to the runabout.
SISKO: I'm not going to leave them in there if I can help it. Mister  Worf, go down to auxiliary control and target the phasers manually.
WORF: Aye, sir.
NOG: I'm losing the Rubicon, sir!
DAX: If we're going to get out of here, I need warp power now!
O'BRIEN: I'm on it.
SISKO: Report.
KIRA: Shield generators and impulse engines are offline, sir. Warp  engines, too.
IXTANA'RAX: Surrender or you will all be killed.
DAX: Chief, you okay?
O'BRIEN: I think so.
DAX: Julian?
BASHIR: I'm fine, but you're not.
DAX: Oh, that's better.
O'BRIEN: That was the easy part.
DAX: Well, the good news is we're alive, so we must have escaped the  anomaly.
O'BRIEN: The bad news is the external sensors and the comm. system are  down. I can patch around most of the damage, but it'll take time.
DAX: Better add the blast shutters to your list. I can't get them open.
BASHIR: There you go. Good as new.
DAX: I don't suppose that thing'll work on our communications system?
O'BRIEN: I'm picking up the Defiant's transponder signal. We can home  in on that.
DAX: Going to one quarter impulse. Chief, either open these shutters or  give me external sensors, whichever's quicker. I need to see where  we're going.
IXTANA'RAX: The bridge is secure.
KUDAK'ETAN: Tactical report.
IXTANA'RAX: The bridge officers are confined in the mess hall, other  survivors in the cargo bay. We will have impulse power back online in  thirty minutes, but it will take several hours to restore warp  capability.
KUDAK'ETAN: It must be gratifying for an Elder to end his career with a  victory. I feel privileged to be here with you at such a moment.
IXTANA'RAX: There is still much to do before we declare victory. Until  we leave Federation space, we are vulnerable
KUDAK'ETAN: I am First. And I have declared victory.
IXTANA'RAX: It is, of course, your prerogative.
KUDAK'ETAN: Open a channel to the Vorta.
JEM'HADAR: Yes, First.
JEM'HADAR : We have the boarding party.
GELNON : Ah, First. Your report?
KUDAK'ETAN: The Defiant is ours.
GELNON : Good. Very, very good. I must admit, I was  initially quite sceptical about you and the other new Jem'Hadar bred in  this quadrant, but this is a most impressive debut. Wouldn't you agree,  Elder?
IXTANA'RAX: The takeover of the ship was competently executed.
GELNON : Do I detect a note of jealousy in your voice?  I'm sure it must be difficult for you to watch a new race of Jem'Hadar  beginning to supplant you and the other members of the old guard.
IXTANA'RAX: I serve the Founders. If it is their will to create a new  race, then that is the order of things.
GELNON : But?
IXTANA'RAX: But the Jem'Hadar bred here in the Alpha Quadrant have not  proven themselves superior to those from the Gamma Quadrant. At least  not yet.
KUDAK'ETAN: Not yet? It was the Alphas who made this victory possible.  If it were not for us, you would never
GELNON : You two can argue about this on your own time.  First, how long until you restore warp power?
KUDAK'ETAN: I will make a complete survey of the ship and give you a  report in one hour.
GELNON : Very well. I await your report.
KUDAK'ETAN: Bring me Captain Sisko.
IXTANA'RAX: I would suggest that his execution can wait until we have  completed repairs to the ship.
KUDAK'ETAN: I'm not going to execute him. Are you about to question my  order, Second?
IXTANA'RAX: No. Obedience brings Victory.
KUDAK'ETAN: And Victory is Life.
KUDAK'ETAN: Find the ship's transponder and shut it down. I don't want  anyone tracking us.
JEM'HADAR: Yes, First.
KUDAK'ETAN: And get these chairs off the bridge.
KIRA: Thanks. That's enough.
WORF: I should have foreseen this. I should have sent out  reconnaissance probes to scan for enemy ships. Or a shuttle. Or  recalibrated our sensors. If I had, Jadzia
NOG: None of that would've done any good. The Jem'Hadar approached us  from the anterior angle of the  anomaly. Their warp signatures
KIRA: He's just trying to tell you
WORF: I do not need him to tell me anything.
SISKO: Everybody settle. First of all, we don't know what happened to  the Rubicon. For all we know they got out of the anomaly on their own.  If they did, they're headed home and in much better shape than we are.  So let's hold off on analysing our mistakes for now.
KIRA: If they restore warp power, we'll be analysing them from inside a  Dominion prison camp.
SISKO: Restoring warp power might not be so simple for them. It took us  a week just to learn how to pilot one of their ships. We might have a  chance to retake the Defiant, but we can't do anything unless we can  get out of this room. Suggestions?
IXTANA'RAX: Captain Sisko, come with me.
SISKO: Everybody sit tight. I'll be back.
BASHIR: We've lost the Defiant's transponder  signal.
DAX: Coming to full stop.
O'BRIEN: The problem isn't at this end. They must have stopped  transmitting.
DAX: I can't keep flying blind, Chief.
O'BRIEN: Try the shutters.
DAX: Nice work.
O'BRIEN: Ask and ye shall receive.
O'BRIEN: What the hell is that?
DAX: Some kind of wall?
O'BRIEN: In the middle of nowhere?
BASHIR:  Wait a minute, there's a symbol up there. It  looks like a large black circle.
DAX: Anything else?
BASHIR: Hold on. Chief, you're not going to like this.
O'BRIEN: I thought you said we'd return to our normal size once we left  the anomaly.
BASHIR: We should have.
DAX: We didn't leave the anomaly by the same path at which we entered  it.
BASHIR: So the process failed to reverse itself.
O'BRIEN: Are you telling me that I'm going to be this bloody tall for  the rest of my life? 
BASHIR: This bloody tall, actually.  But don't worry.  All we have to do to regain our original size is re-enter the anomaly  and follow our original trajectory back out.
O'BRIEN: In theory.
BASHIR: In theory.
DAX: I'll tell you what isn't a theory. We're going to need the  Defiant's help to re-enter the anomaly.
BASHIR: With communications out, how do we get their attention?
DAX: Fly up to a window and knock?
O'BRIEN: Wait. If we're this big, that means the Rubicon is what, this  big? 
BASHIR: More or less.
O'BRIEN: And the Defiant's aft plasma vent is this big? 
DAX: Are you suggesting that we take the Rubicon inside the Defiant?
O'BRIEN: Why not? Getting past the anti-backflow valve might be tricky,  but once we're inside we've a better chance of attracting someone's  attention than we do sitting out here.
DAX: I love it. Let's go.
LAMAT'UKAN: The engineering team reports that we  can restart the impulse engines in twelve minutes.
KUDAK'ETAN: Good. Captain Benjamin Sisko. The one the Bajorans call the  Emissary. I am First Kudak'Etan. In a strange way, you are the reason I  exist. If you had not eliminated our fleet in the wormhole, there would  have been no need to breed Alpha Quadrant Jem'Hadar.
SISKO: You didn't bring me here to say thank you.
KUDAK'ETAN: No. The impulse engines sustained only minor damage in our  attack, but the warp drive was severely damaged. I need your technical  expertise in order to repair it. Bring Captain to the engine room so he  may begin necessary repairs.
IXTANA'RAX: It's a mistake. Giving him access to the engine room will  only give him an opportunity to retake the ship. In fact, he's working  on a plan at this very moment.
KUDAK'ETAN: I was not aware that telepathy was a Gamma characteristic.
IXTANA'RAX: I know what he's thinking because it's exactly what I would  be doing in his position. You should kill him now, before he has a  chance to put his plan into motion.
KUDAK'ETAN: You are the Second. I am the First. Do not presume to tell  me what to do.
SISKO: I'm glad the two of you worked that out. Now, what makes you  think I'm going to help you?
KUDAK'ETAN: Your choice is to repair the warp drive or watch me execute  your crew one at a time. Have Sixth Duran'Adar select one of the  prisoners for execution and bring him to the bridge!
SISKO: I can't do this job alone. I'm going to need some of my crew.
KUDAK'ETAN: How many?
IXTANA'RAX: I strongly suggest that you refuse this request.
SISKO: You have the weapons. Are you afraid you can't handle a few  unarmed prisoners?
IXTANA'RAX: I won't be baited by a prisoner, and neither should you.
SISKO: Okay. I'm in no hurry to reach a Dominion prison camp. if you  want me to teach your men how to repair the warp drive, that's fine  with me. We'll begin with primary command and control systems. That  should take about six hours. Then we will move up to basic engineering  theory for a class seven warp drive. Then
IXTANA'RAX: Enough.
KUDAK'ETAN: You may have the three other Bridge officers, but that is  all. And I am not interested in any more of your suggestions. Now take  him to the engine room.
DAX: Where are we, Chief?
O'BRIEN: We've just about reached the bi-polar flow junction, I think.
BASHIR: You think?
O'BRIEN: I'm not used to seeing things from this perspective. Once we  reach the flow junction we should be able to go up into the secondary  warp plasma feed and then exit via the diagnostic panel.
BASHIR: This conduit's filthy, Chief. Don't you ever clean up in here?
DAX: All right, all right. Let's not badger the Chief.
O'BRIEN: Thank you.
BASHIR: I'm sorry. It was very small of me.
IXTANA'RAX: Whatever it is you're planning, don't. I'll be watching  you, and at the first sign of treachery I will kill all your bridge  officers.
SISKO: I'm a prisoner. I have no intention
IXTANA'RAX: The First may be a fool, but I am not.
SISKO: Then it is a pity for you that you are not the First.
IXTANA'RAX: I was, until two days ago. If we had captured you while I  was in command we wouldn't be having this conversation. Deck two,  section five.
SISKO: What happened?
IXTANA'RAX: He is an Alpha, I am a Gamma. His DNA and psychological  profile are specifically designed for combat in this quadrant. The  Founders believe that makes him a better leader.
SISKO: What do you believe?
IXTANA'RAX: I believe I've given you enough information already.
KUDAK'ETAN: We have restored impulse power, and the  warp drive will be operational in five hours.
GELNON : Excellent. It's good to see my faith in you has  not been misplaced. The Founders will be pleased. If you require no  more assistance, I will resume our mission to Coridan. Let's hope the  Federation's dilithium miners will be as surprised to see us as the  Defiant's crew was.
KUDAK'ETAN: Victory is Life.
GELNON : Indeed.
KUDAK'ETAN: Set course for the closest Dominion outpost. Engage impulse  engines.
O'BRIEN: Uh oh.
DAX: What is it?
O'BRIEN: The magnetic plasma guides are heating up.
DAX: They must have initiated the impulse prestart sequence.
BASHIR: What does that mean, then?
DAX: It means this entire conduit is about to be filled with  superheated plasma.
BASHIR: When you say superheated?
O'BRIEN: If I can't find another way out of here, we'll be vaporised.  Is that clear?
BASHIR: Crystal.
O'BRIEN: There's a distribution manifold coming up. Take the left  conduit, then make a quick right into the relays.
DAX: Left, then right.
BASHIR: I hope you know where you're going, Chief.
O'BRIEN: So do I. Through the relays. There's an inspection hatch  coming up on the right. If we can figure out a way to open the hatch
DAX: We're out of time.
BASHIR: What about the hatch?
DAX: We'll have to open it the old-fashioned way.
BASHIR: Let's not do that again.
DAX: No promises. So where are we, Chief?
O'BRIEN: We should be in the engine room near, the warp core.
DAX: Right. There's the core. Looks like the warp drive is offline.
BASHIR: Quite a mess. I wonder what happened?
IXTANA'RAX: What are you doing?
KIRA: Realigning the dilithium articulation frame.
IXTANA'RAX: Instruct him on how to complete the realignment.
KIRA: It'll take longer to explain, than just to do it my
IXTANA'RAX: Then explain it quickly. Give him the tool.
KIRA: All right. Start by decoupling the lateral microbrace.
DAX: That's not good.
DAX: Chief, I need visual sensors as fast as you can give them to me.
O'BRIEN: Right. Julian, give me a hand down here.
O'BRIEN: Okay, you should have visual sensors now. The comm. system's  back online.
DAX: They're forcing our crew to repair the warp drive.
BASHIR: Why's the Captain going along with this?
DAX: Good question. But if I know Benjamin, he's up to something. Can  you give me a tight shot on the operations display?
O'BRIEN: I think so.
DAX: Do you see what I see?
O'BRIEN: Very clever.
DAX: Problem is, it's never going to work.
O'BRIEN: The bridge control lockouts.
DAX: The security codes are hardwired through the encryption circuitry.
BASHIR: Will someone please let me in on this conversation?
O'BRIEN: The Captain's trying to take control of the ship from  Engineering. Kira is the only one actually working on the warp drive,  and it doesn't look like she's in any hurry to get it done.
DAX: I think Worf's trying to cover their tracks. It looks like he's  sending false signals through the computer system.
O'BRIEN: Nog is the key. He's trying to override the bridge control  lockout so he can release the command codes. If he can do that, the  Captain can control the entire ship from the operations console. Nog's  a smart kid, but it's going to take him weeks to release the codes from  here.
BASHIR: Can we do anything to help him?
O'BRIEN: Not from engineering. If we could get to the bridge, we could  release the codes from there.
BASHIR: How?
DAX: Wait a minute. One thing at a time. First we need to get out of  the engine room without getting caught.
IXTANA'RAX: Why is the Klingon working on the  plasma display subsystem?
SISKO: Because I told him to.
IXTANA'RAX: That system has nothing to do with warp drive operation.
SISKO: Maybe not on Dominion ships, but I'll need to use the display to  monitor warp plasma stability. Pardon me.
KIRA: Until I tell you to stop.
JEM'HADAR: Yes, Major.
O'BRIEN: Now what?
DAX: Now we wait until someone walks out that door.
IXTANA'RAX: Sixth!
SIXTH: Yes, Second.
IXTANA'RAX: Relieve the Klingon. Take over the repair of the display  subsystem.
SIXTH: Immediately, Second.
IXTANA'RAX: Give the Klingon another task.
SISKO: Why?
IXTANA'RAX: Because I said so.
KUDAK'ETAN: Why is the warp drive not online yet?
IXTANA'RAX: He's stalling.
SISKO: Stalling? Your Second is the one who's slowing down the work. He  countermands my orders, arbitrarily reassigns my crew. I can't get any  work done in here.
KUDAK'ETAN: You were told to watch them, not to interfere with them.
IXTANA'RAX: You're playing right into his hands. Don't you see that?
KUDAK'ETAN: Captain Sisko, you have thirty minutes to restore warp  power, or I will kill her,  and another of your crew every  fifteen minutes until you do. And you, Second, will no longer interfere  with their work.
DAX: Get ready. When he activates the door sensor,  we'll
BASHIR: Nice bit of piloting.
DAX: If you liked that, you're going to love what's coming up next.
SISKO: Any luck, Ensign?
NOG: Not yet, sir. The system's always three steps ahead of me. Every  time I get past the primary security net, the secondary always kicks me  back out and the codes are all reset, and I have to start all over  again.  Like that. Do you have a backup plan in case this doesn't  work?
SISKO: Yes. I'll destroy the ship.
NOG: There are still a few algorithms I haven't tried yet.
KIRA: Thanks. All right, I'm ready to connect the deuterium injector.  Go to the plasma relay and power it up, but slowly just like I showed  you.
KIRA: I'm about ten minutes away from initiating the prestart sequence  on the warp drive. How's Nog doing?
SISKO: Not good. You'll have to find another problem.
KIRA:  Too fast! Reinitialise the system and start again, but do  it at about half the speed this time. He's not stupid. He's already got  the entire command and control system committed to memory. I can't keep  him fooled forever.
SISKO: In a battle of wits between you and him, I'll bet on you every  time.
KIRA: What kind of odds are you giving?
LAMAT'UKAN: First? I've realigned the targeting sensors. There were  errors in the tracking subroutines.
KUDAK'ETAN: You were not ordered to check the targeting sensors.
LAMAT'UKAN: Well, I thought it a wise precaution in case we encountered  an enemy ship on our way home.
KUDAK'ETAN: Your initiative pleases me. It's a trait that the Gammas  lack.
LAMAT'UKAN: Well, the Gammas have many flaws.
KUDAK'ETAN: When we return from this mission there will be need for a  new Second. I will recommend you to the Vorta.
LAMAT'UKAN: You will not be disappointed.
KUDAK'ETAN: I'm sure that I won't. It'll be Alphas like us that  determine the future of this quadrant. That will be the new order of  things.
O'BRIEN: Looks like we need another ticket into the  bridge.
BASHIR: So how long do we wait for someone to open the door?
DAX: We don't.
WORF: I cannot access the autodestruct system  without drawing attention.
SISKO: Plant a computer virus in the warp plasma subprocessor. Set it  to cause a core breach once the ship reaches warp one.
WORF: Understood.
O'BRIEN: Don't hit it too hard. It could shatter the control panel.
DAX: Don't worry. I have a light touch.
BASHIR: Not according to Worf.  What?
O'BRIEN: Well we certainly can't release the  control lock while the First has his hand on it.
DAX: Can we bypass it?
O'BRIEN: I suppose I could reroute the encryption subprocessors  manually.
DAX: But?
O'BRIEN: But I'd have to leave the ship to do it. And I have to say I'm  not fond of the idea. I can think of about a thousand ways a one  centimetre man could get fried walking around inside a circuit housing.
BASHIR: Relax, Miles. You wouldn't be able go out there even if you  wanted to. You wouldn't be able to breathe. The oxygen molecules  outside are almost two thousand times larger than anything your  haemoglobin could assimilate. You'd suffocate.
O'BRIEN: Well, that takes care of that idea.
DAX: Unless. Circuit housings are airtight. I could beam a bubble of  compressed air ahead of you and it would expand to fill the housing.
BASHIR: It should work. The air would be thin, but you'd be able to  breathe for about twenty minutes.
O'BRIEN: And then?
BASHIR: You'd pass out.
O'BRIEN: We'd pass out. You're coming with me.
O'BRIEN: This might take longer than I thought.
O'BRIEN: All right. If we beamed into the primary safeties junction, we  should see a cluster of heuristic subprocessors next to a rectilinear  expansion module. The question is, what does a rectilinear expansion  module look like when you're one centimetre tall?
BASHIR: What? I haven't the faintest idea, but it's amazing. It's like  we're in the middle of an optronic forest.
O'BRIEN: Looks like we need to go. Julian, stop!
O'BRIEN: That chip behind you is carrying twenty microamps of electric  current. Now, that's not very much
BASHIR: But it's enough to fry every synapse in my tiny body. Thanks  for the tip.
O'BRIEN: All right, stay right behind me. And don't touch anything  without asking.
BASHIR: Believe me, I won't.
LAMAT'UKAN: The White.
KUDAK'ETAN: It is time.
DAX: How's it coming, Chief?
BASHIR: We're making progress. Aren't we, Chief?
O'BRIEN: I'm still trying to locate the security protocol interlink.  Shouldn't take much longer.
DAX : Well
DAX: The sooner the better. Things are getting a  little crowded up here.
LAMAT'UKAN: We pledge our loyalties to the Founders from this
KUDAK'ETAN: Pah. We're all Alphas here. Our loyalty is demonstrated by  our actions, not our words.
O'BRIEN: All right. Now
BASHIR: Miles, we're lost, aren't we?
O'BRIEN: Yes, we're lost! I can draw these circuits in my sleep. I've  just never seen them from this perspective.
BASHIR: Disorientation is one of the effects of hypoxia, lack of  oxygen. Need to focus on a landmark. There. That large isolinear chip,  number five eight nine six six stroke delta. What is it?
O'BRIEN: Julian, there are two dozen six six delta's in the asymmetric  encryption circuits alone.
BASHIR: All right, then what's this here at it's base?
O'BRIEN: That's a four way interlink shunt.
BASHIR: So that would mean that this chip is?
O'BRIEN: I don't know. I told you, they all look the same to me.
BASHIR: All right, don't look at it.
O'BRIEN: What?
BASHIR: Close your eyes, use your memory. Okay. There's a four way  shunt at the base of a eight five nine six six stroke delta isolinear  chip, which is where?
O'BRIEN: The only four way shunt near a six six delta is at the base of  the master differential relay. That's got to be it.
BASHIR: So the interlink we want has to be?
O'BRIEN: That way.
SISKO: We've got trouble. They're cross-checking  the diagnostic protocols.
KIRA: Has Nog made any progress?
SISKO: Not yet.
BASHIR: It's stuck.
BASHIR: Which one?
O'BRIEN: That one. No, no, no. That one.
BASHIR: You sure?
O'BRIEN: Again. Julian.
O'BRIEN:  Rubicon. Mission complete.
NOG: Oh, I am good.
JEM'HADAR: Come with me.
IXTANA'RAX: All of you, step away from the consoles. Right now!
NOG: Captain. I did it. I don't know how, but I released the command  codes.
SISKO: Well done. What we need now is a diversion before they go to  warp.
IXTANA'RAX: Silence!
O'BRIEN: All the Defiant's command functions have  been transferred to Engineering. But nothing's happening.
BASHIR: Maybe the Captain doesn't realise he has control of the ship  yet.
DAX: Or maybe he's in trouble. The First was called to the engine room  a few minutes ago.
KUDAK'ETAN: How long has the warp drive been  repaired?
IXTANA'RAX: At least one hour, maybe longer.
KUDAK'ETAN: And they managed to conceal it from you?
IXTANA'RAX: You ordered me not to interfere with them.
KUDAK'ETAN: I also told you to watch them carefully.
IXTANA'RAX: If we had assigned Jem'Hadar to do the repair, as I said
KUDAK'ETAN: I am not interested in your excuses. Bring the warp drive  online.
IXTANA'RAX: Wait! Before we activate the warp drive we should check the  entire system for possible sabotage.
KUDAK'ETAN: That would take hours. Every minute we spend in Federation  space exposes us to detection and attack. And I would hate for your  last mission to end in failure, Elder. Do it. And when you have  sufficient engine power available, bring us to warp four.
KIRA: At least we're going to take them with us.
KUDAK'ETAN: Secure these four with the other prisoners.
O'BRIEN: Dax, upper rail.
DAX: I've got him.
DAX: This guy's really starting to get on my nerves.
BASHIR: I have got torpedo lock.
DAX: Fire!
SISKO: I'm flooding all compartments except the engine room with  anesthesine gas. Major, get that virus out of the computer before  somebody on the bridge engages the warp drive.
KIRA: Aye, sir.
SISKO: He should've listened to you and killed me when he had the  chance.
IXTANA'RAX: He was a First. They don't need to listen. Obedience brings  Victory and Victory is 
SISKO: Mister Worf, I think your wife is here.
DAX: Is that your poem?
WORF: Yes. Bloodwine.
DAX: Can I hear it?
WORF: It is not finished yet.
DAX: Please, just the first line?
WORF: All right. But it is my first poem.
DAX: I understand.
WORF: And I have worked very hard and very long on this.
DAX: I know.
WORF: And I do not wish to be ridiculed.
DAX: I promise.
WORF: Very well.  This is the story of a little ship that  took a little trip. What do you think?
DAX: It's, er, well, it rhymes.  There's nothing on  this PADD!
BASHIR: We were just minding our own business when suddenly, right  there in front of us, was this immense Jem'Hadar.
O'BRIEN: He looked as tall as a Seltan carnosaur. We were so close, you  could see the veins throbbing in his eyeballs. We swung around and  ducked behind the operations console. I knew we had to do was get our  sensors back online if we were going to be any help to the Captain and  the others. So I said to Julian
BASHIR: Is there something wrong?
ODO: Are you sure you've returned to your normal size?
O'BRIEN: Of course.
BASHIR: Why?
ODO: Well, you both appear to be a couple of centimetres shorter than  you were the last time I saw you. A changeling notices that sort of  thing.
QUARK: I didn't want to say anything, but you do look a little on the  petite side.
BASHIR: Infirmary.
QUARK: And they say you don't have a sense of humour.
