AREV: Surak.
SOVAL: Admiral, the High Command will tell you its  decision at the proper time.
FORREST: After all we've been through, I'd rather hear the good news  from you.
SOVAL: The High Command hasn't included me in their discussions.
FORREST: They're not telling their own Ambassador to Earth what they're  planning? Welcome to the club.
SOVAL: Admiral, I know you find our reluctance to share technology and  discoveries restrictive.
FORREST: I can think of a few stronger words than that.
SOVAL: We don't know what to do about humans. Of all the species we've  made contact with, yours is the only one we can't define. You have the  arrogance of Andorians, the stubborn pride of Tellarites. One moment,  you're as driven by your emotions as Klingons, and the next, you  confound us by suddenly embracing logic.
FORREST :I'm sure those qualities are found in every species.
SOVAL: Not in such confusing abundance.
FORREST: Ambassador. Are Vulcans afraid of humans? Why?
SOVAL: Because there is one species you remind us of.
FORREST: Vulcans.
SOVAL: We had our wars, Admiral, just as humans did. Our planet was  devastated, our civilisation nearly destroyed. Logic saved us. But it  took almost fifteen hundred years for us to rebuild our world and  travel to the stars. You humans did the same in less than a century.  There are those on the High Command who wonder what humans would  achieve in the century to come, and they don't like the answer.
FORREST: We're not the Klingons. We only want to be your partners. To  do what the nations of Earth have learned to do. To work together in  common cause.
SOVAL: Unfortunately, the future of relations between our worlds is not  mine to control.
REED: Captain!
HOSHI: Here!
TUCKER: That's another game. Twenty one to two.
HOSHI: Time to switch sides again, Doctor.
PHLOX: Certainly. This is a most enjoyable sport. Reminiscent of Octran  fertility contests.
T'POL: Captain, I've just spoken with Starfleet Command.
PHLOX: Except we're fully clothed, which is probably for the best.
ARCHER: I'm sorry to keep you from your family, but  I'm going to need you on the investigation full-time.
T'POL: That's where I prefer to be.
ARCHER: Your mother and husband will understand?
T'POL: My mother hasn't responded to my communiqués. It's not unusual  for her to become lost in her work. As for my husband, our arrangement  remains unchanged.
V'LAS: Captain Jonathan Archer, I regret we meet under such tragic  circumstances.
T'POL: I'd like to introduce Administrator V'Las.
ARCHER: Administrator. I wasn't told to expect the head of the High  Command.
SOVAL: Captain Archer, all of Vulcan grieves with you today.
ARCHER: Twelve Vulcans died in the blast, Ambassador.
V'LAS: To that end, this is Stel, Chief Investigator of our Security  Directorate.
STEL:  Captain, we now have suspects.
ARCHER: Andorians? Why would they attack our  embassy?
STEL: To create conflict between Earth and Vulcan.
SOVAL: They do consider us allies who stand against them.
ARCHER: So far, we've done our best to remain neutral, and the  Andorians know that. They have nothing to gain by attacking us.
T'POL: You have other suspects?
STEL: Syrrannites.
ARCHER: I've never heard of that species.
T'POL: Actually, they're a small group of Vulcans. They follow a  corrupted form of Surak's teachings.
ARCHER: Surak I've heard of. He's the father of Vulcan logic.
V'LAS: Even after eighteen hundred years, we consider him the most  important Vulcan who ever lived.
ARCHER: So why would these Syrrannites want to attack our embassy? It's  hardly an act of logic.
SOVAL: They've been vocal about their opposition to government, but  always peaceful.
STEL: Over the past year their leader, a dissident named Syrran, has  become a dangerous zealot.
V'LAS: Captain, I trust you to keep this matter confidential. We don't  share it lightly. But recently, on our world, there have been instances  of violence against non-Vulcans. Though we have no conclusive proof,  there are signs that Syrrannites might be responsible.
ARCHER: Is there any evidence connecting Syrrannites to the bombing?
SOVAL: Your embassy is officially considered to be on Earth soil. We've  preserved the site for you to investigate.
V'LAS: If evidence is there, the Chief Investigator and I feel  confident you'll find it.
ARCHER: I intend to.
TRAVIS: Lieutenant, here's the junction room.
TRAVIS: Schematics say the secondary security bank's right in there.
REED: Still in one piece.
TRAVIS: There's a weak power signature under this mess.
REED: It's probably an emergency light running on batteries. Well,  there's something here. Some kind of surveillance recorder.
TRAVIS: Lieutenant.
REED: The timer might be broken, but that bomb's armed. Don't move. The  slightest vibration might set it off. Reed to Enterprise. I need an  emergency transporter lock. Two to beam up on my mark.
HOSHI : Acknowledged.
TRAVIS: Why not beam the bomb out of here?
REED: If there's a gravity switch, it'll detonate in the matter stream.
HOSHI : Enterprise to Reed. The transporter's locked. Do you need  assistance?
REED: Negative, Enterprise. Stand by.
REED: I'm going to attempt to scan it.
TRAVIS: Attempt?
REED: Yeah. If I had designed that bomb, I'd rig it to go off the  instant a sensor beam made contact. Look on the bright side. If it  detonates, we'll never know. Steady. There's Vulcan DNA on these  controls. So much for blaming Andorians. Boosting scan resolution.
TRAVIS: That can't be good.
REED: Oh, damn. Enterprise, mark. Enterprise!
PHLOX: According to the Vulcan Genome Registry, the DNA on the bomb's  controls was left by this woman. T'Pau.
ARCHER: Since you had her DNA on record, does that mean she's been  arrested before?
T'POL: The Registry records DNA from all Vulcans at birth.
ARCHER: Do you know anything about her?
STEL: T'Pau is a well-known Syrrannite.
ARCHER: All right. We've got a solid start. Now we need to find her.
STEL: Captain, T'Pau is Vulcan. The Security Directorate will take  charge of the investigation.
ARCHER: Of course. Vulcan sovereignty. Lieutenant Reed and Commander  T'Pol will work with you.
STEL: Their assistance isn't required.
ARCHER: Chief Investigator. Forty three people died in the bombing.  Twelve Vulcans and thirty one humans. We want her as much as you do.
STEL: This is now a Vulcan security operation. We'll inform Ambassador  Soval of any developments that concern you.
SOVAL: His death is a loss to both our worlds.
ARCHER: If you're lost, Ambassador, I can direct you to your shuttle.
SOVAL: He saved my life in the explosion. He could have saved himself.
ARCHER: He always put the mission first.
SOVAL: The last time we spoke, he was anticipating the prospect of  joint missions. Humans and Vulcans working together.
ARCHER: We have to make that possible, despite the High Command.
SOVAL: It makes no sense to think the Syrrannites are responsible for  this outrage.
ARCHER: We have DNA evidence.
SOVAL: Recheck everything, Captain, question everything, and don't let  them keep you on Enterprise. The answers you need are on Vulcan, and  however far you have to take this investigation, you have my support.
T'POL: Enter.
KOSS: It is agreeable to see you.
T'POL: What is the purpose of your visit?
KOSS: Does a husband need a purpose to visit his wife?
T'POL: Your message was cryptic.
KOSS: By necessity. The Syrrannite threat has brought new security  measures into effect. Private communications are no longer private.
T'POL: You have something to tell me that the authorities shouldn't  hear?
KOSS: Something to give you. Your mother asked me to deliver it  personally. She told me that it's been in your family for generations,  and now it's your turn to care for it.
T'POL: Why didn't she give this to me herself?
KOSS: The new security conditions. They've forced your mother into  hiding to avoid arrest.
T'POL: My mother?
KOSS: She's a Syrrannite.
ARCHER: A Syrrannite? And she never told you?
T'POL: What's important is that she's disappeared like the others  facing unjustified arrest.
ARCHER: Like T'Pau.
T'POL: No, there's a difference. My mother wants me to find her.
T'POL: It's called an IDIC.
ARCHER: Looks old.
T'POL: It's been modified.
T'POL: This is a desert called the Forge. The route's the one Surak  supposedly followed.
ARCHER: Eighteen hundred years ago?
T'POL: Syrrannites follow the same path today, seeking enlightenment.
ARCHER: And you think your mother is somewhere along that path?
T'POL: She told Koss this was a family heirloom, but I've never seen it  before.
ARCHER: She didn't want Koss to know about the map. With any luck, we  can use this to find your mother, and T'Pau.
TUCKER: Captain, have you seen the reports on this  place? It's a hellhole.
ARCHER:  It's a Vulcan desert. I expect it'll be  hot.
TUCKER: It's got electrical sandstorms. Geomagnetic instabilities so  bad, technology won't work. So, no communicators, no scanners, no  phase-pistols. We can't even beam you into it. You're going to have to  walk in.
ARCHER: I'll be careful. You've got Enterprise. You and Malcolm keep  the investigation going up here, and whatever the Vulcans tell you,  believe the opposite.
ARCHER: Present company excepted. Ambassador.
SOVAL: Captain, Commander. This shows the gaps in our satellite  surveillance, when beam-ins can't be detected.
TUCKER: I'm thinking we're not exactly cleared to have this.
SOVAL: Have what, Commander? All I see is a Starfleet data module.
TUCKER: Right. Captain, what if something goes wrong down there?
ARCHER: It already has. Energise.
T'POL: This site is called Gateway, where Surak supposedly began his  journey into the Forge.
ARCHER: You keep saying supposedly. You don't believe Surak did the  things they said he did?
T'POL: He brought logic to Vulcan, in an age we call the Time of  Awakening, but his writings from that period no longer exist.
ARCHER: There must be some record of it.
T'POL: Over the centuries, his followers made copies of his teachings.
ARCHER: Let me guess. With the originals lost, whatever's left is open  to interpretation.
T'POL: You find this amusing?
ARCHER: I find it familiar. We should get moving.
ARCHER: I thought technology didn't work here.
T'POL: The dampening field only extends a few hundred metres above the  ground. Patrol craft can fly over it, but their sensors can't see us.
ARCHER: No wonder the Syrrannites like it here.
T'POL: We're being stalked.
ARCHER: What the hell was that?
T'POL: Sehlat. Run.
T'POL: Higher ground. Higher. They won't climb.
ARCHER: How long before it starts to lose interest in us?
T'POL: Days, at least. They're very persistent creatures. When I was a  child, I had one as a pet.
ARCHER: You had one of those?
T'POL: Domesticated. They were smaller, slightly.
ARCHER: How slightly?
T'POL: You have Porthos.
ARCHER: Porthos doesn't try and eat me when I'm late with his dinner.
T'POL: Vulcan children are never late with their sehlat's dinner.
ARCHER: I can believe that.
PHLOX: The Captain asked me to re-examine the DNA  from the bomb to see if anyone else might have handled it.
TUCKER: You say you found an anomaly.
PHLOX: In these chromosomal fragments. Here, and here.
REED: What kind of anomaly?
PHLOX: These are telomeres. A genetic clock, if you will. Each time a  cell divides, they grow shorter.
TUCKER: Sure. That's how you tell how old someone is from a cell  sample.
PHLOX: Though T'Pau's current age is thirty two standard years, her DNA  recovered from the bomb has an age of only a few months.
TUCKER: They used the DNA they sampled when she was registered as a  baby.
PHLOX: Precisely. The evidence implicating T'Pau is false.
TUCKER: Captain Archer's gone after the wrong person.
REED: And there's no way to get word to him.
TUCKER: Doc, take a look at this.
TUCKER: It's the recording Malcolm recovered from the embassy.
REED: According to the security log, this is when T'Pau's biometric  signature was recorded.
PHLOX: Undoubtedly another fabrication.
TUCKER: But look, the guard recognised whoever it was. And that guard  is your patient.
PHLOX: Corporal Askwith?
TUCKER: He could be our only chance to identify who really planted the  bomb.
PHLOX: He's in a coma. His cranial injuries are substantial. I don't  expect him to recover.
REED: There must be a stimulant you can inject him with, something to  bring him around just for a few minutes.
PHLOX: There's only so much damage a human body can withstand.
TUCKER: I don't care about his body, Doc. We need what's in his mind.
ARCHER: Sounds like that Klingon opera Hoshi made us listen to.
AREV: The path is safe again.
ARCHER: That's quite a trick.
AREV: You're a human.
ARCHER: Jonathan Archer.
AREV: Travelling with a Vulcan.
T'POL: T'Pol.
AREV: Curious.
ARCHER: May we ask your name?
AREV: Arev.
T'POL: That means desert wind.
AREV: Does it? Why are you here?
ARCHER: We could ask you the same thing.
AREV: I follow the path of Surak in meditation and study. And you?
ARCHER: I'm on a pilgrimage to study Surak and logic. T'Pol is my  teacher.
AREV:  I welcome you to walk with me.  But this is  no place for your kind. Turn back.
ARCHER: If it's all the same, I'll walk with you, too.
AREV: This desert's called The Forge for a reason. It will test you and  destroy you.
AREV: The Plain of Blood. Some say Surak crossed this expanse when the  hot blood of battle still flowed green. But with logic, he cooled it.
T'POL: Captain, the reflected heat is too hot for you.
ARCHER: I'll stick to the sand-covered parts wherever I can.
T'POL: I won't need water for several more days.
ARCHER: You'd better protect your eyes from the glare.
T'POL: My inner eyelids will protect my vision. My species evolved on  this planet.
AREV: How long have you tried to understand Vulcan logic?
ARCHER: Ever since I met T'Pol.
AREV: Very well, student of Surak. Who said, Logic is the cement of our  civilisation with which we ascend from chaos using reason as our guide?
ARCHER: I'm new at this. You tell me.
AREV: Something more basic then. What's Kiri-kin-tha's First Law of  Metaphysics?
ARCHER: I'm familiar with Newton's First Law of Motion. I imagine  they're pretty much the same.
AREV: You haven't been truthful about your presence here.
ARCHER: Have you?
AREV: Vulcans do not lie.
ARCHER: I've dealt with the High Command. Vulcans can lie and cheat  with the best of them.
AREV: The High Command does not follow Surak's true path. No wonder you  humans are their allies.
T'POL: From the questions he asked you, I believe he is a Syrrannite.  And it's obvious that he doesn't trust us enough to take us to the  others.
ARCHER: That only leaves one option. We have to tell him what he wants  to know, the truth.
T'POL: It may be too late for that. Sand-fire!
TUCKER: This man's our only witness.
SOVAL: He's comatose, brain-damaged, and he's human. A mind-meld is  dangerous under the best of conditions, but under these
TUCKER: Look, I know Phlox says there aren't a lot of Vulcans who can  do this sort of thing, but you've got to know someone who could at  least try.
SOVAL: Those who do have the ability won't risk their careers by  publicly attempting what you suggest.
PHLOX: Most Vulcans see melding as deviant behaviour.
TUCKER: What's that got to do with it?
SOVAL: Evidence will solve this crime, not mind-melds.
TUCKER: What evidence? The DNA on the bomb was planted.
SOVAL: You can prove that?
PHLOX: I can.
TUCKER: Ambassador, I don't know what kind of pull it takes to mess  with DNA records on Vulcan, but I think we're looking at a deliberate  attempt to hide the truth.
SOVAL: You're suggesting a conspiracy.
PHLOX: One that cost forty three innocent lives.
TUCKER: Aren't they worth a little risk?
SOVAL:  The needs of the many. I can perform the meld.
T'POL: Captain.
AREV: Over here!
AREV: Help me with this. The sand-fire can still  reach us.
AREV:  I know this. How did you get this medallion?
T'POL: From my mother.
AREV: T'Les.
T'POL: You're a Syrrannite.
AREV: The daughter of T'Les serves on a human starship.
T'POL: When did you talk with her? Is she safe?
AREV: You're the human responsible for the destruction of the monastery  at P'Jem.
ARCHER: Is that going to be a problem?
AREV: The High Command defiled P'Jem when they used it to spy on  Andoria. You exposed their hypocrisy.
ARCHER: You seem to know a lot about us. I'm guessing that means you  know why we're here.
AREV: Your mother is safe with the others, at the T'Kareth sanctuary.  It's not far. I'll guide you both there when the storm has passed.
SOVAL: I don't know if this has ever been attempted  with a human before.
SOVAL: My mind to your mind. Our minds are one. Our thoughts are  joined. Yes.
SOVAL: I see what you see. The embassy. I'm at my station. At your  station. So many new people arriving for the summit. I don't recognise  them all, but some I know. A package. That's all right. I don't need to  see it. Go right through. Who are you? Who?
TUCKER: Ambassador. What'd you see?
ARCHER: How long do these sand-fire storms usually last?
AREV: A day. Perhaps two. I've never seen one this strong. But we're  safe here, and we're in no hurry.
ARCHER: Maybe we should be.
T'POL: The High Command believes the Syrrannites are responsible for  bombing the Earth embassy.
AREV: That's not our way.
ARCHER: They seem to think that it is. That you and your leader believe  in a corrupted version of Surak's teachings.
AREV: Did your mother tell you the story?
T'POL: Of the IDIC?
AREV: Infinite Diversity in Infinite Combination. Words that are a mere  shadow of its true meaning.  Surak tells us that the  story of the IDIC has no end. But it begins here, at Mount Seleya.
T'POL: Surak died on Mount Seleya.
AREV: His body, yes, but his katra was spirited away before the last  battle against those who marched beneath the Raptor's wings. Those who  wanted to return to the savage ways.
ARCHER: What's a katra?
T'POL: Syrrannites claim it's the essence of a Vulcan mind. That it can  be transferred from the body before death, then stored in some manner.
AREV: Some say Surak's katra was found, and now is carried by a  Syrrannite so all those who meld with him may touch Surak's mind.
ARCHER: Syrrannite's conduct mind-melding?
AREV: Surak tells us it is the heritage of every Vulcan. Even those who  don't believe in the practise.
STEL: A witness?
TUCKER: The guard recognised the person who brought in the bomb we  found in the rubble.
STEL: The Syrrannite woman, T'Pau.
SOVAL: No. It was you.
STEL: I would like to interrogate this witness myself.
TUCKER: You're not getting anywhere near him.
V'LAS: Perhaps I could speak with the guard.
PHLOX: I'm afraid he's in no condition to be questioned. He's in a  coma.
V'LAS: Yet he provided an eyewitness account.
TUCKER: We accessed his memories through a mind-meld.
STEL: Telepathic evidence is inadmissible.
V'LAS: It's not evidence at all! You allowed this distasteful act to  take place?
SOVAL: I performed it.
V'LAS: Soval. You've shamed Vulcan and yourself. The law leaves me no  recourse. You'll be summoned to appear before the High Command to  account for your actions. Commander. Doctor.
AREV: At one time, the High Command was only  responsible for the exploration of space. But that's changed.
ARCHER: I've been told Vulcans have never been explorers.
AREV: I think you've been told many things about us that aren't true.
AREV: Reseal the entrance!
ARCHER: T'Pol!
ARCHER: Easy, easy, easy.
AREV:  Listen. The storm is gaining strength.
ARCHER: Arev.
AREV: You must carry it to Sanctuary.
ARCHER: Carry what?
AREV:  Tuluk to Vokau.
TUCKER: You can't go back.
SOVAL: I'm not a fool, Commander. V'Las was involved with the attack on  your embassy. He's responsible for blaming it on the Syrrannites.
TUCKER: Then why turn yourself over to him?
SOVAL: It's the only chance I'll have to reach the rest of the High  Command.
TUCKER: What if they're all in on it?  If you really want  humans and Vulcans to work together someday, you might start thinking  about trusting us.
TUCKER: Right.
ARCHER: Arev. 
T'POL: Are you injured?
ARCHER: I'm fine. He said something in Vulcan. Vokau.
T'POL: Remember. Remember what?
ARCHER: I think he punched me. The storm's over?
T'POL: The patrol craft are flying again. They sound like they're  closing in on this  location.
ARCHER: He said we weren't far from the T'Kareth Sanctuary. We should  keep moving.
T'POL: After we bury him.
ARCHER: They're following a grid search pattern. No sensors, but they  can still make visual contact. We have to find cover before the sun  comes up. That way.
T'POL: There's nothing there.
ARCHER: That's where the Syrrannites are.
T'POL: How do you know?
ARCHER:  I'm good for a few more days.
T'POL: Captain, you're not Vulcan.
ARCHER: Right.
T'POL: It's almost dawn. We need to find someplace to hide.
ARCHER: No. Over here.
T'POL: That won't help us.
ARCHER: Don't resist.
T'POL: What do you mean?
