TUCKER: Chief Engineers log, supplemental. This turned out to be the  perfect spot to test the autopilot upgrades. The gas giant has dozens  of moons. It's like a gravitational jigsaw puzzle. Watch out, Travis.  These modifications are working so well, pretty soon we won't need  pilots anymore.
ARCHER : Archer to Shuttlepod one.
TUCKER: Captain?
ARCHER : Looks like you're about to have some company, Trip.  Sensors are picking up a small
TUCKER: Say again, Captain. I'm picking up a lot of interference.
TUCKER: This is Commander Charles Tucker.
TUCKER: Tucker to  Enterprise. Mayday. I'm losing power. Mayday! If you can hear me, I'm  making an emergency landing, thrusters only. I take it back, Travis. I  could use a flesh and blood pilot right about now.
HOSHI: Enterprise to Shuttlepod One. Commander  Tucker, do you read me?
TRAVIS: Malcolm?
REED: I detected weapons fire and then both ships just disappeared.
ARCHER: Last known position?
REED: Approximately fifty thousand kilometres, bearing zero zero  three mark two seven, I think. I can't be more specific. It's the  damned interference.
T'POL: Many of these moons have atmospheres that contain selenium  isotopes. That's most likely what's affecting our sensors.
ARCHER: Trip's a good pilot. If he was near one of those moons he most  likely set down on it. How many are there?
T'POL: Sixty two.
ARCHER: Then we'd better start looking. Travis.
TRAVIS: Yes, sir.
ARCHER: We'll scan every moon, even if we have to do it with  binoculars. Keep hailing him.
TUCKER: Chief Engineer's Log, supplemental. For the record, I was  attacked by a small craft. I don't know what I did to provoke him.  Something in this moon's atmosphere neutralised my engines. I was  forced to make an emergency landing. Looks like I took some damage on  impact. Main power's still offline. I don't think I'll be flying out of  here. First things first. I'll try and get the transceiver working,  contact the Enterprise.
TUCKER: Damn it.
TUCKER: Son of a bitch stole my transceiver.
ARCHER: Who are they?
T'POL: An Arkonian military vessel.
ARCHER: You've dealt with them?
T'POL: No, but I'm aware of their reputation. If we're in their  territory, we should proceed with extreme caution.
HOSHI: They're hailing us.
ZSHAAR : You  are on an unauthorised course. Leave immediately.
ARCHER: And you are?
ZSHAAR : Captain Khata'n Zshaar. I have orders to  destroy any vessel that violates our territory.
ARCHER: I'm Captain Jonathan Archer of the Starship Enterprise. We  weren't aware that this system was claimed by anyone.
ZSHAAR : Why is there a Vulcan on your bridge?
ARCHER: Sub-Commander T-Pol is my Science Officer.
ZSHAAR : Turn your ship around.
ARCHER: A member of my crew is missing. We believe he exchanged weapons  fire with a small vessel. Was it one of yours?
ZSHAAR : We sent a patrol ship to intercept your  shuttle. We have also lost contact.
ARCHER: Then maybe we can look for them together. Once we've recovered  our crewman we'll be more than happy to leave.
ZSHAAR : If your shuttle did encounter my patrol ship,  your crewman is already dead.
ARCHER: Either way, we're not going anywhere until we know what  happened. Now it seems to me we have a similar problem. Two missing  people and sixty two moons. It'll go a lot faster if we use both our  ships to co-ordinate the search. The sooner we get started, the sooner  we'll be out of your territory.
TUCKER: It's him. I recognise his shuttlecraft. He  seems about as bad off as I am. Whatever knocked out my engines  probably did the same to his. If I'd brought a Universal Translator  along, I'd be able to explain to this guy that I'm just trying to get  out of here like he is. One piece of good news. It's starting to warm  up a little. Dawn is coming.
TUCKER : I'm coming out now. Please don't fire. I want to talk. I'm  unarmed.
TUCKER : We need to talk. You have something that belongs to me. I  want it back. If you understand anything that I'm saying to you, I want  you to listen very, very closely. Mary had a little lamb. Its fleece  was white as snow.
TUCKER : And everywhere that Mary went, the lamb was sure to go.
TUCKER: Now, maybe we can introduce ourselves.
ZHO'KAAN: 
TUCKER: Nice to meet you, too. Now, I don't want to hurt you. I just  want my transceiver back.
TUCKER: I'm no good until I've had my coffee.
TUCKER: You wouldn't have a Universal Translator on you?
ZHO'KAAN: 
TUCKER: I don't understand a word you're saying!
TUCKER: I can't make it work. It's broken. You know, broken. I was  trying to make repairs when you stole it.
TUCKER: What?
ZHO'KAAN: Kushka roatta.
TUCKER: You want me to fix your transceiver.
TUCKER: Is that a yes or a no?
ZHO'KAAN: Kushka.
TUCKER: Kushka to you, too.
TUCKER: You kill me and I can't fix anything. You're going to have to  untie me. I need my hands.
ZHO'KAAN: 
TUCKER: I try anything, I'm a dead man. I get the message.
ARCHER: Any progress?
T'POL: We've searched five of the moons. No sign of Commander Tucker or  the Arkonian ship.
ARCHER: And the Arkonians?
T'POL: It appears they've made no progress either. They're continuing  to search the moons they agreed to.
ARCHER: This is their territory. They could have called for more ships  to help search.
T'POL: I'm afraid they don't trust us. Primarily because I'm a Vulcan.
ARCHER: What's the bad blood?
T'POL: We made First Contact nearly a hundred years ago, not long after  the Arkonians developed warp drive. But from the beginning, our  relations were difficult. Your people accepted Vulcan guidance, opened  diplomatic and cultural exchanges. The Arkonians were suspicious and  deceitful. Eventually, the High Command withdrew its contingent.
ARCHER: Well, maybe we'll have better luck with them.
T'POL: It doesn't appear promising.
ARCHER: They agreed to work with us.
T'POL: For now. I'd advise you to remain cautious. Arkonians are  unpredictable. They're prone to hostility.
T'POL: I'll keep that in mind. Let me know when we reach the next moon.
TUCKER: Damn it.
ZHO'KAAN: Damn.
TUCKER: Well, looks like we've made some headway in our First Contact  between humans and whatever you are. Unfortunately, your first word is  something you wouldn't want to use in polite company.
ZHO'KAAN: Damn it.
TUCKER: No. I'm Trip.  Trip.
ZHO'KAAN: Trip.  Zho'Kaan.
TUCKER: Zho'Kaan. Great. Now that we've been properly introduced, how  about some water, Zho'Kaan? It's getting kind of hot. Thirsty. You  know. Drink. Water.
ZHO'KAAN: Trip.
TUCKER: Thanks.
TUCKER: What the hell is that?
TUCKER: Sorry. I have water in my shuttle. Water. Something I can  drink.
TUCKER: There's a medkit in my shuttlepod.
TUCKER: What the hell are you doing? Are you crazy?
TUCKER: That was quite a trick.
ZHO'KAAN: Drat. Drat komacha.
TUCKER: All right, all right. I can't fix this thing. It's a lost  cause. Maybe if you vomit on it, it'll fix itself. Come over here. I  want you to see this. Here. Come here. It's like talking to Porthos.  See this? I tried bypassing the induction coil, but it didn't work.  See? In here.
TUCKER: I can't fix this. I need to get back to my ship.  My ship. Now, pick 'em up. Pick them up!
TUCKER: Same to you. Now, let's get going.
ARCHER: What have you got?
T'POL: See for yourself.
ARCHER: I'll need a little help here.
T'POL: It's a thermo-kinetic analysis of e moons. Each of them  undergoes extreme temperature variations during their orbits.
ARCHER: Go on.
T'POL: At night, it can drop to five or even ten degrees below zero.
ARCHER: Doesn't sound so bad.
T'POL: During the day, the temperature can rise to as high as one  hundred and seventy degrees.
ARCHER: We'd better hope that Trip landed on the night side.
T'POL: And that we find him before the sun rises.
TUCKER: Don't give me that look. You started this.
TUCKER: You want some food?  Food.
ZHO'KAAN: Nohkto.
TUCKER: Nohkto. I couldn't agree more.
ZHO'KAAN: 
TUCKER: You want food from your ship? V'dhoze, that means food?
ZHO'KAAN: V'dhoze.
TUCKER: V'dhoze, ship.
ZHO'KAAN: Ship.
TUCKER: Yeah. Sorry, but breakfast is going to have to wait. I've  figured out a way to get us out of here. I got a pretty good look at  your comm. configuration back there. I think I can cannibalise the  power supply from your transceiver and use it to get mine working.  Maybe get a message off.
TUCKER: Got it. Almost there. I think this is going to work.
ZHO'KAAN: Nohkto.
TUCKER: No, not nohkto. Good.
ZHO'KAAN: Good.
TUCKER: That's right. We're getting out of here. Once we get back to  Enterprise and we can finally understand each other, the first words  out of your mouth had better be thank you.
TUCKER: You think  that's funny?
TUCKER: You going to laugh now? Tucker to Enterprise.  Enterprise, do you read me? Come on, Hoshi. Tucker to Enterprise. This  terrain, it's all volcanic. Igneous rock is heavy in diamagnetic  minerals. It's interfering with the transmission. I think I know what  we need to do. The transceiver, the tsunsana. It's bad down here.  Nohkto. But if we take it to higher ground we could avoid some of the  interference. I'm going to need help. You and me, together.
TUCKER: See? I'm not going to hurt you, and you are not  going to hurt me. We'll work together.
TUCKER: Before we start, we'll get some food from  your ship. Your v'dhoze.
TUCKER: Easy.
TUCKER: Is that the best you can do?
TUCKER: We can fight some more if you want, or we can try to get  the hell out of here. What's it going to be?
TUCKER: Come  on.
HOSHI: Captain, I'm picking up a transmission.
ARCHER: Trip?
HOSHI: I can't tell yet. I'm trying to get a lock.
TUCKER : Respond. Mayday. Enterprise. Anybody. Please respond.
ZSHAAR: We never received a call.
ARCHER: It was transmitted on a Starfleet frequency.
ZSHAAR: You told me these moons are dangerous. So why haven't you  rescued your pilot?
ARCHER: That's why I asked you here. The message was in a Starfleet  frequency, but we think the carrier wave was generated by your  technology. We weren't able to respond. If we can't isolate the wave we  won't be able to rescue either of them. My science officer believes she  can recalibrate your scanners to isolate our frequencies. Then you can  pinpoint their location.
ZSHAAR: If I allowed a Vulcan access to an Arkonian ship, I'd be  executed.
ARCHER: Then send your science officer over here. T'Pol can show him  what to do. It seems my engineer and your pilot have found a way to  work together.
TUCKER: Chief Engineer's log, supplemental. It's been two hours since  we started signaling the Enterprise. No response yet. The sun's not  even up yet and it's already hotter than hell. My sparring partner  doesn't look too good. I can't be sure, but I don't think his species  can sweat. For the record, I have learned one thing about him. His  name's Zho'Kaan. Anything you want to say to the folks back home?
ZHO'KAAN: Nohkto.
TUCKER: That means bad. You'd be proud of me, Hoshi. I've picked up  about a dozen words in his language. A couple of them are real  tongue-twisters.
ZHO'KAAN: 
TUCKER: Hey. Zho'Kaan.  I though I lost you  there.
ZHO'KAAN: Tsunsana. Enterprise krnat?
TUCKER: No. No Enterprise.
ZHO'KAAN: Damn it.
TUCKER: Don't worry. I'll get Phlox to cook up a new batch for you once  we're aboard Enterprise. He's great with that kind of thing. Stay with  me, Zho'Kaan. Gan tak. Don't die on me now, understand? All right.
HOSHI : Enterprise.
TUCKER: See? I told you. Hoshi, is that you?
TUCKER : Do you read me?
ARCHER: We read you, Trip.
TUCKER : You're just in time, Captain. It's starting to get a  little hot down here.
ARCHER: We're getting a lock on your position now.
TUCKER : Don't send a shuttlepod.
TUCKER: There's something in this atmosphere  that'll affect the engines.
ARCHER : it's selenium isotopes, but we don't think it will  interfere with the transporter.
TUCKER: I'm not alone, Captain.
ARCHER : We know. The Arkonians helped us find you. How are you and  their pilot getting along?
TUCKER: Uh, just like old friends. I'm a little worried, though. He's  gotten very dehydrated.
ARCHER: Stand by, Trip.  Prepare the  transporter.
PHLOX: I wouldn't do that, Captain.
ARCHER: What's the problem?
PHLOX: I've been analysing the Arkonians' physiology. Their endocrine  system is extremely sensitive to temperature fluctuations. If that  pilot is suffering from dehydration, it's no doubt causing an acute  cellular breakdown.
ARCHER: Meaning?
PHLOX: Transporting him will most likely be fatal.
ARCHER : Archer to Commander Tucker.
TUCKER: I'm still here, Captain.
ARCHER : Trip, we can bring you aboard but we can't transport the  Arkonian. Doctor Phlox says it will kill him. We'll try to find a way  to get him back to his ship.
ARCHER: But in the meantime, I'm getting you out  of there.
TUCKER : No way, Captain. I'm not leaving him here.
T'POL: The surface temperature is rising quickly, Commander. I estimate  it will reach one hundred thirty degrees within the next hour.
ARCHER: Let's get you home.
ARCHER : Then we'll worry about your friend.
TUCKER: I'm sorry, sir, but I can't do that.
TUCKER : Maybe there's another way.
TUCKER: We know our pods can't make it, but I got  a good look at the circuitry inside the Arkonian shuttle. One of theirs  could be modified.
ARCHER: How?
TUCKER : If they take a look at their intake manifolds
TUCKER: I think they could realign them to filter  out the isotopes.
ARCHER: We'll talk to them, but I won't let you  stay down there much longer.
TUCKER: Understood.
ARCHER : Archer out.
TUCKER: Tucker to Enterprise. Enterprise, respond. Some of these relays  have fused. Must be the heat. Hey. Gan tak.
TUCKER: I don't suppose the  Captain'll trust me to go out on my own for a while. I wouldn't be  surprised if he knocked me down to steward. Your orange juice, sir. Jam  or marmalade, sir? But I tell you I wouldn't trade my time on  Enterprise. Not for anything. I've seen things I could never imagine  back home. I saw the Great Plume of Agosoria and I saw the ringed moons  of Matalas Prime. And I stood on an asteroid crater twice as high as  Everest, and went diving in the ice caves of Etheenia. Rode in a  Suliban cell ship. Spent the night, I spent the night with a princess.  Oh, and I even got pregnant once. Now there's a story. I'm sure you  have stories, too. That's why we chose this life, right? See things  we've never seen before. Hell of a ride, though. Hell of a ride.
TUCKER: Zho'Kaan. V'dhoze.
ARCHER: Come in.
ARCHER: I just  got a report from my doctor. Your pilot's responding well. He'll be  ready to go home in a few hours.
ZSHAAR: And your crewman?
ARCHER: He's tired and a bit sunburned, but he's doing fine.
ZSHAAR: If I discover that my pilot fired on your shuttle without  provocation, he'll be disciplined.
ARCHER: It was a misunderstanding. I hope we can avoid them in the  future.
ZSHAAR: I expect you to leave this system immediately, as agreed.
ARCHER: I guess we won't be adding the Arkonians to our list of  friends.
T'POL: The encounter was less volatile than I expected. You managed to  establish better relations in a single day than the Vulcans have in a  century.
ARCHER: Let's hope it stays that way.
TUCKER: How's he doing?
PHLOX: Why don't you ask him yourself? The Universal Translator is  online.
TUCKER: They told me another ten minutes of sunshine, and we'd have  been cooked.
ZHO'KAAN: Tarattaash.
TUCKER: I thought you said the UT was working.
ZHO'KAAN: I believe you promised me some Tarattaash.
TUCKER: You mean the brown stuff you were drinking? Won't take a  minute. Anything else while I'm at it? Our chef is making something  called chicken Marsala tonight.
ZHO'KAAN: Tarat
TUCKER: Tarattaash. Got you.
ZHO'KAAN: Trip. When I fired at your vessel. I'm grateful I didn't  destroy it.
TUCKER: That makes two of us.
