ARCHER : Come in.
ARCHER: Good morning.
REED: Captain.
ARCHER: Sleep well?
REED: Well enough.
ARCHER: I wasn't sure what you wanted for breakfast, so I took the  liberty of having Chef prepare his famous Eggs Benedict.
REED: That'll be fine, sir.
ARCHER: You plan to eat standing up?
ARCHER: This isn't a  visit to the principal's office, Malcolm. At ease.
REED: Thank you, sir. I just wasn't sure whether you called me here to  discuss something.
ARCHER: No. No business. I just wanted to have a long overdue meal with  my Armoury Officer.
ARCHER: I heard that England made it  to the finals in the World Cup.
REED: I beg your pardon?
ARCHER: The World Cup? Soccer?
REED: Oh. I'm afraid I don't much follow football, sir.
ARCHER: Any sports you do follow?
REED: No, not particularly.
ARCHER: Thanks.
CREWMAN: You're welcome, sir.
REED: I've been working on the duty roster, sir. We only have two  crewmen assigned to the Armoury full time. If we added a third, Ensign  Tanner would be free to begin those upgrades to those torpedo launchers  I told you about.
ARCHER: Didn't your mother ever tell you not to bring your homework to  the table?
REED: Sir?
ARCHER: This looks fine.  Archer.
T'POL : I'm sorry to interrupt, Captain, but we've detected an  uncharted system along our present course. One of the planets is  Minshara-Class.
ARCHER: Take us out of warp. I'm on my way. Looks like we'll have to  reschedule.
REED: Whenever it's convenient. After you, sir.
ARCHER: Anybody home?
T'POL: It's uninhabited.
ARCHER: What about geographical features? Anything interesting?
T'POL: There's a chain of volcanoes that spans an entire hemisphere.
ARCHER: Well, I don't know about anyone else, but I could use some  fresh air. Put us in a standard orbit.
TRAVIS: Aye, sir.
ARCHER: Find a volcano with a gentle slope. Preferably one that's not  erupting. Prep a shuttlepod, Travis. We'll take shifts down to
ARCHER: Report!
REED: It was a thermo-kinetic explosion on the outer hull, port forward  quarter. Breeches on C deck, D deck.
T'POL: Bridge to Sickbay. We need medical  assistance.
PHLOX : Acknowledged.
ARCHER: Emergency bulkheads?
REED: They're in place, but eight subsections have decompressed.
ARCHER: Was anybody in them?
REED: I can't tell, sir. Not yet.
ARCHER: Find out what happened. Malcolm!
REED: I'd give you an answer if I could, sir. The sensor logs aren't  showing anything. All systems were functioning normally.
ARCHER: Archer to Engineering.
TUCKER: Captain, what's going on?
ARCHER : I was hoping you could tell me.
TUCKER: We've got plasma fires, an overload in the EPS grid but  whatever caused that explosion,
TUCKER : I don't have a clue. Weapons fire? An  asteroid?
ARCHER: Nothing on our sensors. How are your people?
TUCKER: A few bumps and bruises, but we're all  right.
ARCHER : Keep me posted. Archer out.
ARCHER: Any casualty reports?
REED: Figures are coming in, sir. Seventeen so far, including Hoshi. No  fatalities.
PHLOX: Get this man into the imaging chamber.
CREWWOMAN: What's happening? Are we under attack?
PHLOX: I don't know.
CREWMAN: Doctor!
TRAVIS: Captain, something just struck the ship.  Starboard side upper aft quadrant.
ARCHER: Can you get a visual?
ARCHER: There. Just behind the secondary plasma vent. You see  it?
TRAVIS: Some kind of cloaked ship?
ARCHER: It's too small.
T'POL: I'm not reading any biosigns.
REED: It's armed with tricobalt explosives. I  think it's a mine. And judging by the firepower, something similar  damaged our ship.
ARCHER: Can you tell if it's active?
REED: No reason to believe it's not.
T'POL: Captain, it's lodged near Impulse Reactor Two. An explosion  anywhere near there could disable Enterprise.
ARCHER: What if we polarised the adjacent hull plating?
REED: We don't know how it's triggered. Somebody has to go out there  and defuse it, and it should be me. I have the ordnance training.
ARCHER: I've never heard of a minefield with just two mines. Are the  quantum beacons still mounted on the grappler arm?
TRAVIS: I believe so.
ARCHER: Lower them into position, then modify the viewscreen. Activate  the beacon.
T'POL: They were designed to penetrate Suliban cloaking devices. I'll  try shifting the phase variance.
REED: Lieutenant Reed to Bridge. I've opened the outer hatch. Wish me  luck.
T'POL: I'm detecting something in the gamma  spectrum, phase variant point zero zero seven five.
REED: Its  surface is pockmarked. Probably micrometeorite impacts. It seems to  have been in orbit for some time. The spikes are magnetic. Two of them  have locked onto the hull.
REED : Stand by. I'm going to run an internal  scan.
REED: There are proximity sensors, but they appear  to be offline.
REED : It looks like the mine doesn't think  it's hit anything. I believe I've found an access panel. I'm going to  try and remove it and get a look inside.
ARCHER: How bad is it?
TUCKER: I can't really tell until we can get into the decompressed  sections but I imagine it's pretty ugly. I've got one piece of good  news. I did a head count. We didn't lose anyone.
ARCHER: Trip, I'm not sure Malcolm's going to be able to defuse this  thing. Couldn't we just detach that section of hull plating? Let it  drift away?
TUCKER: We'd have to reroute some EPS conduits. There's about three hundred bolt  couplings. It could be done.
ARCHER: How long?
TUCKER: Three or four hours. But I wouldn't recommend it, sir. We'd be  exposing a good piece of the impulse manifold.
ARCHER: Get a team started. I'll consider it our last resort.
REED : I'm removing the panel.
REED: The arming mechanism's extending.
REED: Captain.
ARCHER: We see it, Malcolm.
ARCHER: Ever see a ship like that?
T'POL: No. It's reflecting our scans.
ARCHER: Why didn't the beacons let us see through its cloak?
T'POL: Perhaps the mines use a more primitive cloaking system.
TRAVIS: Sir, they're hailing us.
T'POL: The translator's not locking on.
ARCHER: Archer to Sickbay.
PHLOX: Yes, Captain.
ARCHER : Is Hoshi in any shape to return to the Bridge? It's urgent.
PHLOX: I'm afraid not. She suffered a rather severe concussion.
ARCHER : Understood.
HOSHI: Tell him I'm on my way.
PHLOX: You'd be of little help in your present condition, Ensign.
ARCHER: Any luck?
T'POL: Not yet.
TRAVIS: They're charging weapons.
TRAVIS: They missed our  starboard nacelle by less than twenty metres.
ARCHER: Not a very subtle warning shot.
ARCHER: Can you get us out of here?
TRAVIS: The orbits of those mines are pretty erratic, sir. It's going  to be tricky.
ARCHER: We'll give you whatever help we can. Bridge to Lieutenant Reed.
REED : Go ahead.
ARCHER: Our friends seem to be anxious for us to leave. We're going to  break orbit, nice and slowly.
REED: Understood. If you plan to go to warp, sir,  you'll let me know?
ARCHER : I'll try to remember.
ARCHER: Maneuvering thrusters only.
TRAVIS: Aye, sir.
ARCHER: Activate the beacon.
REED: Our friends just vanished.
ARCHER : That doesn't mean they're not still close.
REED : Lieutenant Reed to Bridge.
ARCHER: Go ahead.
REED: I've identified four separate detonation  circuits. If I can isolate them in the proper sequence, I should be  able to deactivate the mine. It'll take some doing, but to be honest,  Captain, it's only a theory.
ARCHER: How good a theory?
REED : The closest thing I'm familiar with that this device  resembles is a Triton-Class spatial torpedo. I've disarmed at least  half a dozen of those. I believe I can do it, sir.
ARCHER: I've got Trip working on a backup plan,  but I'd prefer not to use it. Right now, you're our best bet. Be  careful, Malcolm.
TRAVIS: I see it.
REED: Bridge.
ARCHER: Go ahead.
REED : Another one of those spikes I told you about.
ARCHER: What about it?
REED: It just magnetised itself to the hull.
ARCHER : Is there a problem?
REED: On its way it went through  my leg, sir.
ARCHER: I'm on my way, Lieutenant.  The  Bridge is yours.
TUCKER: Captain, I should be the one to go out there. I'm the engineer.
ARCHER: That's why I need you here, Trip.
PHLOX: Ensign, lie still. Your injuries don't appear to be serious.  Present circumstances, however, should not keep up from continuing our  Denobulan lessons. What about anatomy? Let's begin with the thyroid  gland.
HOSHI: The thyroid gland?
PHLOX: In Denobulan.
HOSHI: 
PHLOX: Very good. How about the hypothalamus?
HOSHI: 
PHLOX: Excellent. Now the xiphoid process. That's a difficult one.  
HOSHI: 
PHLOX: No. No, that could be misinterpreted as big toe. The proper term  would be . All right, let's try something simpler.  Pericardia.
PHLOX: You'll have to  wait in line for my osmotic eel to cauterise your wound. He's getting  quite a workout today.
HOSHI: Doctor.
PHLOX: Ensign.
HOSHI: They need a translator. I should be at my post.
PHLOX: I realise you're anxious to help but you wouldn't make it to the  turbolift. If you'd like, I could have them bring the comm. logs here.
HOSHI: Thank you, Doctor.
ARCHER: Thought you might need a hand.
REED: Actually, I'd prefer a leg.
ARCHER: Let's see what we can do with the one you got.   Could have been worse. It missed the bone, and it looks like  the pressure from the spike is keeping the wound from bleeding too  much. You'll be in Sickbay in no time. These should cut right through  it.
REED: Actually, sir, I wouldn't do that. My scans show detonation  circuits inside the spikes. I would consider letting you amputate, but  if Chef got hold of it he'd be serving Roast Reed for Sunday dinner.  Just give me something for the pain and I'll do my best to reach the  access panel.
ARCHER: Not without doing more damage to that leg.
REED: What's more important, my leg or your ship?
ARCHER: I intend to save both.
REED: I don't see how.
ARCHER: That backup plan I was telling you about? I asked Trip to  prepare to detach this section of hull plating. Seemed like a good idea  at the time.
REED: It's still a good idea.
ARCHER: Not with you attached to it.
REED: I hope that's an anaesthetic.
ARCHER: Phlox's own recipe.
REED:  Please, sir, may I have some more?
ARCHER: I don't want you too sedated. I'm going to need your help.  Someone's got to defuse this thing. You're going to talk me through it.
REED: With all due respect, Captain, disarming mines is extremely  delicate business. I'm trained for it. You're not.
ARCHER: I'm a quick study.
REED: It's too dangerous.
ARCHER: In case you haven't noticed, Lieutenant we're sitting about  five metres from an impulse reactor. I'm not leaving until we take this  weapon offline.
REED: Sir.
ARCHER: The way I see it, you don't have much choice. You're sort of  stuck here. So would you let me get started?
REED: I hope you've got a steady hand.
HOSHI: They're  ordering us to leave their system immediately or they'll destroy us.
TUCKER: Charming. Could you figure out a way to compose a message back,  explaining we're going as fast as we can?
HOSHI: I can try.
T'POL: And their next message?
HOSHI: They say they've annexed this planet in the name of something  called The Romalin Star Empire.
T'POL: Romulan. It's pronounced Romulan.
ARCHER: Romulans? I read about them when I was  with Daniels.
TUCKER : What'd you find out?
ARCHER: Not much. Just the name. He wouldn't let me see anything else.  T'Pol?
T'POL: They're rumoured to be an aggressive,  territorial species but the Vulcan High Command has never made direct  contact with them. Ensign Sato's translation says that
T'POL : They're demanding that we withdraw  from this system immediately.
ARCHER: That's going to be a little tough to do at the moment. Is there  any way you can explain our situation?
T'POL: She believes she'll have a reply prepared  within the hour.
TUCKER: How's it going out there, Captain?
ARCHER : We've taken two of the detonation circuits offline. Three  more to go. Keep me posted.
REED: The next one's  going to be tricky. Do you see the Y-shaped components surrounding the  circuit?
ARCHER: There's six of them.
REED: Right. Those are timing relays. You'll have to rotate each one  counterclockwise seventy degrees, but it has to be done in the proper  order. I'll guide you through it. Start with the relay to your upper  right. Raise it one centimetre and then turn it seventy degrees  counterclockwise. Good. Now pull it out slowly. Be careful not to touch  the housing. Well done. Now complete that set on the diagonal.
ARCHER: So, where were we?
REED: Sir?
ARCHER: This morning, at breakfast, before we were interrupted. You  said you didn't follow any particular sport.
REED: Well, I'm afraid I haven't started following one since breakfast,  sir. Now, go to the relay top centre, but watch that one. I believe it  may be damaged. It'll need some extra torque to deactivate it.
ARCHER: How about hobbies? Any hobbies?
REED: No, not really, sir.
ARCHER: I could've sworn I've seen you reading a book or two in the  mess hall.
REED: Sir, do you really think that this is the appropriate time for a  chat?
ARCHER: It helps me focus. It calms my nerves.
REED: Well, it isn't calming mine.
ARCHER: Sorry. It made you a little nervous this morning, too, didn't  it? Why is that?
REED: If you must know, I was honoured to be asked to sit at your  table. I just wasn't entirely comfortable having a casual meal with my  captain. I was trained not to fraternise with superior officers.
ARCHER: Never too late to learn.
REED: Frankly, sir, from my point of view that kind of socialising has  no place on a starship.
ARCHER: I had a CO once felt the same way. They're your crew, not your  friends. I thought about that a lot when I took this command, but then  I realised this is not your typical mission. We could be out here for  years. All we have to depend on is each other.
REED: There are two left. Top left first.
ARCHER: I appreciate your suggestions, Malcolm. Anything else?
REED: Well, since you asked. Bridge protocols have become somewhat lax.  Too many people offering opinions. We're here to carry out your orders,  sir. You're the Captain.
ARCHER: What's the point of having a senior staff if they just sit  around with their mouths shut? I'm glad they have opinions. I rely on  them. Keep going.
REED: And in the area of security I sometimes think you could show a  little more caution, sir.
ARCHER: I'm aware of your concerns in that area.
REED: Not to say that it hasn't been a privilege to have served with  you.
ARCHER: Ah ha.
REED: Sir?
ARCHER: You're talking in the past tense, Lieutenant.
REED: Now, reinsert all six relays, but in the reverse order. You're  doing fine, sir.
ARCHER: Thanks.
TUCKER: You've earned yourself a break, Travis. Ensign Hutchison can  cover the helm for a while.
TRAVIS: Thank you, sir, but I'd prefer to stay at my post.
T'POL: Bridge to Captain Archer.
ARCHER : Go ahead.
T'POL : We're clear of the minefield.
ARCHER: Maintain course and speed.
T'POL: Understood.
REED: This last detonation circuit has an added attraction. I'm seeing  something that looks like a back-up arming mechanism. We'll have to  fool the circuit into thinking it's still online.
ARCHER: How do we do that?
REED: There's a hyperspanner in the equipment case. Take out its power  cell and strip off the casing.
ARCHER: You must have realised this wasn't going to be your typical  armory posting. That my command style lacked a certain spit and polish.
REED: It was obvious, if you don't mind me saying so.
ARCHER: Strange.
REED: What's strange, sir?
ARCHER: I understand you came from a long line of Royal Navy men. Your  father, your grandfather. Why pick Starfleet? Why not continue the  family tradition?
REED: God knows I tried.
ARCHER: What happened?
REED: I'll need a circuit probe.
ARCHER: So, what happened?
REED:  I was raised on the water. I knew how  to handle a boat before I could ride a bicycle. Studied all the great  naval battles. I don't know. I suppose I thought I'd just grow out of  it.
ARCHER: Grow out of what?
REED: Aquaphobia.
ARCHER: You're afraid of the water?
REED: More precisely, afraid of drowning.
ARCHER: So instead of a life on the sea you chose a life in the vacuum  of space?
REED: I had a  great-uncle who suffered from the same problem, but he faced his fears.  Joined the Navy, had a distinguished career. All you have to do is  attach it to the cylinder on your upper right. It's working. Start with  the topmost component. Use the caliper to lift it a few millimetres and  then turn it clockwise three hundred and sixty degrees, and then gently  reinsert it. He was something of a hero to me, my great-uncle.
ARCHER: The one with aquaphobia?
REED: Indeed. He signed up with the submarine service.
ARCHER: Talk about facing your deepest fears.
REED: He was a brave man. Wasn't long before he'd worked his way up  through the ranks. Made chief engineer on the HMS Clement. Do you know  the story of the Clement, sir?
ARCHER: I don't think I do.
REED: Good. Now, the other five components. Repeat the same process on  each one, counterclockwise.
ARCHER: You were telling me about the Clement.
REED: They were on a routine patrol when they had an accident. Now,  there's a beautiful irony for you. They hit a mine left over from some  world war. There they were, trapped underneath an ice shelf, several  compartments flooding, including Engineering. Can you imagine? My  great-uncle, the man afraid of drowning? The ship was sinking, losing  power. According to his lieutenant, my great-uncle sealed himself in  the engine room and kept the reactor online long enough for his crew to  make it to the escape pods. He went down with his ship. He did what he  had to do to save his crewmates.
ARCHER: I appreciate what you're trying to tell me, Malcolm, but I was  hoping you'd be able to save your heroics for another time.
REED: I just want you to know, sir, that I am prepared.
ARCHER: Got you.
REED: If we're not able to defuse this mine, the safety of the crew
ARCHER: I said I heard you, Lieutenant.
REED: I'm afraid we have another problem, sir.
ARCHER: What? What is it?
REED: I need to use the bathroom.
ARCHER: I won't tell a soul.
REED: In my EV suit, sir?
REED: Sir.
TRAVIS: We're being hailed.
ROMULAN : You've ignored our warnings.
T'POL: We were unable to translate your language until a short time  ago. We're trying to defuse a weapon lodged on our hull.
ROMULAN : I'm well aware of your situation. Our scans show you're  prepared to detach the hull segment surrounding the mine. Complete the  procedure and leave this system immediately.
TUCKER: We've got a man trapped out there. Don't your scans show you  that?
ROMULAN : One crewman. You have eighty two others safely aboard.  Jettison the hull segment and leave. We will not tolerate espionage.
ARCHER : T'Pol, report.
T'POL: They're demanding that we jettison the section of hull plating  and leave.
TUCKER: They scanned us, Captain. They know we're ready to detach it.
ARCHER: I'm defusing the last detonation circuit.  Stand by. 
REED: It's rearming! Reset that last component! Quickly!
ARCHER:  Lieutenant?
REED: When you deactivated that final circuit, it triggered a sub  detonator.
ARCHER: How can we get to it?
REED: We can't. It's too deep inside. We'd have to dismantle the entire  mine. Captain? Those heroics we spoke about. I think it may be time.  You've done all you can, sir. For what it's worth, you'd make a fine  Armoury Officer.
ARCHER: Show me that sub-detonator.
REED: I'd prefer a burial at sea, if I'm not completely vaporised.
ARCHER: I thought you were afraid of the water. Your scanner,  Lieutenant.
REED:  I told you, sir. There's nothing we can do.
ARCHER: We'll dismantle this thing piece by piece if we have to.
REED: That'll take days.
ARCHER: My schedule's open.
REED: And these Romulans? They don't seem like the patient types. The  longer we stay in this system, the more likely they're going to attack.  As much as I appreciate all your efforts, you have to detach the hull  plating. It's the only option.
ARCHER: I'm not about to leave one of my crew behind.
REED: You're putting Enterprise at risk.
ARCHER: We're wasting time. Help me figure out a way to get you off of  here. That's an order.
ARCHER: What the hell  are you doing?
ARCHER: Great.
ARCHER: If I were the kind of captain you think I should  be, I'd bust your ass back to crewman.
REED: Begging your pardon, sir, but if you were that kind of captain we  wouldn't be having this conversation. You'd have cut me loose by now.
ARCHER: I'm not going to do that, Malcolm. When we triggered that sub-detonator, why didn't the mine explode right away?
ARCHER: How many seconds went by before I rearmed it?
REED: Sir?
ARCHER: How many seconds?
REED: I don't remember. Ten, maybe twelve.
ARCHER: It felt more like twenty.
REED: Ten, twenty, what's the difference?
ARCHER: If it had exploded, how big would the yield have been?
REED: Judging by the damage the first mine caused, I'd guess about a  quarter of a kiloton. What are you getting at, sir?
ARCHER: How close is your team to finishing?
TUCKER: They're down to the last few couplings. What's going on out  there?
ARCHER: We're going to detach the plating.
T'POL: I'm sure you did everything you could, Captain.
ARCHER: I'm going with him. Can a shuttle pod hatch withstand a  quarter-kiloton blast?
TUCKER: Depends how close it was.
ARCHER: Twenty metres, maybe twenty five.
TUCKER: They're reinforced with duratanium alloy. They can take a hell  of a beating. What have you got in mind?
ARCHER: I need two shuttlepod hatches. Have them brought up here on the  double.
TUCKER: Sir?
ARCHER: On the double.
T'POL: Captain, I assume there's no point in my questioning your plan.
T'POL: Bridge to Captain Archer.
ARCHER: Go ahead.
T'POL : We're ready.
ARCHER: See you soon.
TUCKER: Hang on, fellas.
TRAVIS: Six hundred metres.
TUCKER: Another hundred ought to do  it.
TRAVIS: Sub-commander.
T'POL: Hail them.
TRAVIS: No response.
TUCKER: They're charging weapons.
T'POL: Polarise the hull plating.
TUCKER: I'll do what I can, but keep in mind we're missing some of it.
REED: It's rearming.
ARCHER: That's it, let's go.
ARCHER: Now, Malcolm!
T'POL: Enterprise to Captain Archer. Captain,  respond.
TUCKER: Maybe their transmitters were knocked out in the blast. Travis?
TRAVIS: I see them. Bearing two one three mark four. Closing in.
T'POL: Open the doors to Launch bay two.
TUCKER: The Romulans are locking weapons.
T'POL: Bridge to Doctor Phlox.
PHLOX : Go ahead.
T'POL: Meet us outside Launch bay two.
TUCKER: They're targeting our engines.
TRAVIS: A hundred metres more. Fifty. I've got them. Sealing Launch bay  doors.
T'POL: Go to warp, Ensign.
ARCHER: Are you all right?
REED: All things considered. If I may say so, sir, your style of  command does have its advantages.
ARCHER: So, how long was it?
REED: I counted ten seconds.
ARCHER: Ten? It was more like twenty.
REED: Respectfully, sir, it was ten.
ARCHER: I'm not going to argue with you, Malcolm. It was twenty. That's  an order.
