DEGRA: who are you?
ARCHER: They're  targeting our engines.
DEGRA: What do you want with me?
ARCHER: You're the weapons expert. See if you can get those shields  back online. If we don't raise the shields, the only that's going to be  left of this ship is a cloud of vapour.
DEGRA: Insectoids!
ARCHER: These could be shield emitters. They're not going to last for  long.
DEGRA: Open a channel to those ships.
ARCHER: What?
DEGRA: They're Xindi. I'll order them to hold their fire.
ARCHER: It's been a long time since any Xindi took orders from you.  We're carrying five hundred litres of warp plasma in the starboard  tanks. We'll have to vent it. Turn these down on my mark. They're going  to destroy us. Now!
DEGRA: What happened?
ARCHER: The plasma got into their intake manifolds. Their engines are  overheating.
DEGRA: I want to know who you are. Why you've abducted me.
ARCHER: You really don't remember. I was afraid this might happen. It's  me, Archer.
DEGRA: What species are you?
ARCHER: You've been through a lot in the last two days. Just let me  figure out
DEGRA: What species!
ARCHER: I'm human.
DEGRA: You're from the Earth vessel.
ARCHER: Degra, you have to listen to me. I'm not your enemy anymore.  You've spent the last two days in an interrogation chamber. Whatever  the insectoids did to you in there must have affected your memory. My  name is Jonathan Archer. The two of us just escaped from an insectoid  prison colony.
DEGRA: Prison?
ARCHER: We've shared a cell for almost three years.
DEGRA: That's not possible.
ARCHER: Roll up your sleeves.
ARCHER: The conflict between our people is over. We both lost. I  promise I'll explain everything. Right now we have to get out of here  before our friends out there repair their engines.
DEGRA: What are you doing?
ARCHER: There's a system about a week from here. It's isolated. I doubt  they'll look for us there.
DEGRA: You expect me to believe my own people would hold me prisoner?  You think that's amusing?
ARCHER: It's been a while since you referred to those overgrown  grasshoppers as your own people.
DEGRA: Why don't I remember you?
ARCHER: Probably because of the bloodworms.
DEGRA: Bloodworms?
ARCHER: They're used during interrogations. Their secretions act as a  truth serum, makes the prisoners more co-operative. But there's a side  effect. Sometimes they can suppress memories. The same thing happened  when they questioned me. I forgot everything that happened since flight  school. It'll start to come back to you. Give it a few days.
DEGRA: You claim that I've been a prisoner for three years.
ARCHER: Three years.
DEGRA: If that's true, why would they question me now?
ARCHER: They wanted information about the weapon.
DEGRA: What kind of information?
ARCHER: This is going to take some time. What's the last thing you  remember?
DEGRA: I was on my vessel, approaching the planet in the Calindra  system.
ARCHER: The weapons test. It failed because your prototype was  sabotaged.
DEGRA: How would you know that?
ARCHER: Because I'm responsible for it. Your kemocite shipment was  tampered with.
DEGRA: Gralik.
ARCHER: He wasn't too happy when I told him what you were planning to  do with his kemocite.
DEGRA: He'll be executed for this.
ARCHER: He was. In the end it didn't make much of a difference. We  didn't stop your programme, we only slowed it down. A few weeks later  the weapon was launched. It destroyed my planet.
DEGRA: We were successful?
ARCHER: I don't know if you'd call it a success. After Earth was  destroyed the old Xindi rivalries surfaced again. The insectoids  started attacking other Xindi colonies. They killed thousands of your  people.
DEGRA: The reptilians and aquatics would never allow that.
ARCHER: There wasn't a lot they could do. While you were busy  constructing the weapon, the insectoids were secretly building hundreds  of new ships. They used Earth as a diversion. Their real goal was to  dominate the other Xindi species. Are you all right?
ARCHER: It's just a bloodworm. It'll work  its was out.
DEGRA: Can you remove it?
ARCHER: Hold still.
ARCHER: I think you need this more  than I do. Suit yourself.
DEGRA: I don't understand how a Xindi and a human could put aside their  differences so quickly.
ARCHER: Trust me, it didn't happen overnight.
ARCHER: You gave me this the first day we were locked up together.  The guards thought it would be entertaining to put us in the same cell.  They even placed wagers on who would survive the longest. I was in  pretty bad shape at the time so you were the odds-on favourite. Your  people killed everyone I ever cared about. I was going to make sure you  never walked out of that cell. For weeks we tried to kill each other. I  was lying in the infirmary when I finally asked myself, what was the  point. My world was gone, but so was yours. So I made a proposal. The  two of us would work together to get out of that place. Took us longer  than either one of us thought, but here we are.
DEGRA: I don't recognise this type of ship.
ARCHER: It's a Malosian cargo shuttle.
DEGRA: Malosian.
ARCHER: They're traders. They bring supplies to the prison a few times  a month. No weapons, but she's sturdy enough to get us where we're  going.
DEGRA: Perhaps we should set a course to your vessel. Is it still in  the Expanse?
ARCHER: Not exactly. When we were getting close to finding your weapon  the insectoids sent their ships after us. They boarded Enterprise and  took me prisoner, then they planted spatial charges around our warp  reactor. My crew was still aboard when they detonated them.
DEGRA: The insectoids were always the aggressive species, but I never  thought them capable of this. They destroyed everything the Council  worked for.
ARCHER: The Council?
DEGRA: It was formed when our planet was destroyed. It was created to  find a new home world for all Xindi. After years of searching we found  a few suitable locations, but as usual couldn't agree on a final  choice. Our plan for reunification was put aside when we learned of the  threat from Earth. I was ordered to begin designing the weapon. I  devoted years to it. I made so many sacrifices. So did my wife. Do I  know what happened to my family?
ARCHER: You told me you'd heard from Naara before you were sent to  prison. She and the children were safe. We have a ship now. We can look  for them.
DEGRA: They were on a colony near a red giant.
ARCHER: There's nothing in range. Do you remember the coordinates?
DEGRA: I doubt if there's anything left. It would have been one of the  first colonies to be attacked.
ARCHER: There may have been survivors.
DEGRA: It's too dangerous. Patrol ships are still looking for us. We  should find a refuge in case.
ARCHER: Reactor coolant. The conduit must have ruptured in the attack.  Take it.
DEGRA: What about you?
ARCHER: You're the one with a family. You want to see them again? Try  to seal the rupture. I'll see if I can close off the coolant tanks.
ARCHER : T'Pol.
PHLOX: He should remain unconscious for at least  two hours.
TUCKER: The son of a bitch designed the weapon.
ARCHER: Keep an eye on him. Trip.
ARCHER: What have we got?
T'POL: There are seven red giants in this region, but they're spread  over approximately forty light years.
ARCHER: Can we scan them for a weapons facility?
T'POL: Not at this distance.
TUCKER: This red giant might be a red herring. He only told you his  family was living near one of these stars. We don't know that the  weapon is there.
ARCHER: Degra's a senior official. We know he's designing the weapon.  There's a chance he'd keep his family close by.
HOSHI: For a moment, I thought he was going to give you the  co-ordinates.
TUCKER: Too bad he didn't go for the Andorian ale. That would've  loosened him up.
T'POL: You appear to have gained his trust. Perhaps you should try a  more direct approach.
ARCHER: What do you mean?
T'POL: Ask him where the weapon is being constructed.
ARCHER: It's too risky. If he suspects something, we'll wind up right  back where we started. He'll tell me. I just need a little more time.
TRAVIS: I'm picking up a ship at the edge of the  system.
T'POL: It's Xindi.
ARCHER: Why didn't we see it before?
T'POL: It may have been travelling through one of the subspace vortices  that they use. It's hull signature matches the Xindi ships that were  here two days ago.
REED: Captain, I'm reading three biosigns on board.
ARCHER: Have they seen us yet?
T'POL: I don't believe so.
DEGRA: Set course for the inner moon. Stand by to  deploy the sensor drones.
DEGRA: What's that?
THALEN: Weapons fire.
DEGRA: From where?
THALEN: There's a ship closing. It's the human vessel.
DEGRA: You said there was no one in the system.
THALEN: They must have been hiding in the debris.
DEGRA: Contact the Council.
THALEN: They've disabled our subspace transceiver.
TRAVIS: They're making a run for it.
ARCHER: See what you can do about their engines.
REED: They're not going anywhere, sir.
ARCHER: Hail them.
ARCHER: Stand down and  prepare to be boarded.
DEGRA: Thalen.
ARCHER: Anything?
T'POL: They were attempting to erase the computer core when we boarded  the ship. There's very little data left.
ARCHER: What about navigational logs?
T'POL: They've been deleted.
HOSHI: I may have something here, sir. I think these are fragments from  a personal file. There are parts of a letter from someone named Degra.
ARCHER: Does it mention the weapon?
HOSHI: No. There's a reference to a planet he visited recently, Azati  Prime.
ARCHER: Let me know what else you find.
TUCKER: I'd love to spend an afternoon taking this engine apart.
ARCHER: Not your typical nacelle configuration?
TUCKER: Look how everything's tied in through their main deflector.
ARCHER: Learn everything you can.
ARCHER: I want to know where you're building the weapon.
DEGRA: I don't know what you're talking about.
ARCHER: The hell you don't. Your name is Degra. I was at the Xindi  colony when you picked up your shipment of kemocite. Your people are  planning another attack. I'm not going to let that happen.
DEGRA: By capturing us, you've accomplished nothing.
ARCHER: Where's the weapon?
ARCHER: Archer to the Bridge.  Report.
REED: There's a surge in the plasma network.
ARCHER : What's causing it?
TRAVIS: Radiation from the debris field. It's starting to affect our  systems.
REED: Sir, I recommend putting a safe distance between us and the test  site.
ARCHER: All right. Take the ship out of the field but keep us close by.
REED: Understood.
ARCHER: If you won't tell me what I need to know,  perhaps one of your men will.
DEGRA: When my superiors learn we're missing, they'll find your ship  and destroy it.
PHLOX: I could make a truth serum, but it could  take weeks to synthesise the correct formula. I've been studying Xindi  neuro-physiology. It may be possible to erase his most recent memory  engrams. That way Degra will never know that he came aboard, or that he  met any of us.
ARCHER: But this is a Xindi reptilian. Would it work on a primate?
PHLOX: Their neural pathways are virtually identical. I'll need to  perform a few tests, but I don't expect it will be a problem.
ARCHER: How selective could this memory wipe be?
TUCKER: I've built flight simulators for Starfleet  training. This wouldn't be that different.
REED: It's not simply a matter of constructing a shuttle, it has to be  designed. What species built it, what language would the control  interface use.
ARCHER: Hoshi can help with that.
HOSHI: I've recovered a letter Degra wrote to his wife a few months  ago. Her name's Naara. They have two children.
T'POL: It may be necessary to communicate with you while you're inside  the simulator.
REED: The MACOs use subdermal transceivers.
PHLOX: They're relatively easy to implant.
ARCHER: Let's get started.
ARCHER: T'Pol, I could use  your help with some of the details.
T'POL: Details?
ARCHER: If he buys into this, Degra's going to want to know everything  that's happened in the last three years. I can't make up the whole  story on the spot.
ARCHER: Nice work.
PHLOX: Thank you. Dermal art used to be very  common on Denobula. Fortunately, my parents insisted I study it. I've  also stimulated his hair follicles.
ARCHER: I'm not sure about the grey. This is only supposed to be three  years from now.
PHLOX: Ah, but you're forgetting about the stress of imprisonment and  torture. It could very well have an effect on hair pigmentation.
ARCHER: You're sure these are safe?
PHLOX: Oh, yes. I've treated patients with Regulan bloodworms for  years. There should be no side-effects aside from a thoroughly cleansed  lymphatic system. Please try not to injure it. They're difficult to  replace.
ARCHER: I'll do my best.
DEGRA: What is it?
ARCHER: Spatial anomalies. We're passing through a field of them. Hold  on.
T'POL: T'Pol to Cargo Bay two.
T'POL : Increase hydraulics to level six.
DEGRA: Is the hull lined with trellium?
ARCHER: Obviously not.
T'POL: Increase to level seven.
T'POL : On my mark, initiate a sharp jolt to  starboard.
TUCKER: How sharp
TUCKER : do you want it?
T'POL: Sharp.
TUCKER: You heard the lady.
T'POL: Let the Captain know.
HOSHI: This is going to be a rough one, sir.
ARCHER: We're losing structural integrity. I'm taking us out of warp.  We'll never make it through this field in one piece.
DEGRA: Can we go around?
ARCHER: We don't have enough fuel. We should send a distress call. One  of your ships might be close enough to hear it.
DEGRA: What if the insectoids pick it up?
ARCHER: We don't have a lot of choices.
DEGRA: There's a comm. channel used by high-ranking primate officials.  I doubt the insectoids know it.
ARCHER: What's the frequency?
DEGRA: It would be easier for me to enter it directly.
T'POL: Ensign?
HOSHI: I've got it.
T'POL: Stand by to respond.
REED : Bridge to Command centre.
T'POL: Go ahead.
REED: I'm picking up a distortion in subspace. I  believe it's a Xindi ship.
T'POL: How long until they arrive?
REED: About six hours.
HOSHI: Their sensors are pretty sophisticated.  They might see us long before then.
T'POL: Lieutenant, take us back into the debris field.
REED : The radiation could overload our systems again.
T'POL: I'm aware of the risks. Carry out my orders.
REED : Acknowledged.
ARCHER: One of the inmates told me all about  Maarek Three. He used it as a staging area when he was smuggling  dilithium.
DEGRA: What did he say it was like?
ARCHER: Beautiful, with beaches that go on for thousands of kilometres.  First thing I'm going to do is find a cold lake and take the longest  bath of my life.
ARCHER : It sounded a lot like Earth,  the way he described it.
HOSHI: The Captain's certainly drinking a lot.
T'POL: The Doctor gave him an anti-intoxicant.
ARCHER : This colony of yours, you never told me about it.
DEGRA : It was bleak, desolate.
DEGRA: The planet was barely habitable.
ARCHER: Why'd you live there?
DEGRA: It wasn't by choice. Naara was desperate to leave, she didn't  think a military habitat was the right environment for the children. Do  you have a family, Captain?
ARCHER: It's been a long time since anyone called me Captain. It's  Jonathan, remember? I never really had an opportunity to start one. I  was away from home a lot.
DEGRA: You should make the time. I've learned that our work, in the  end, means very little. Our real legacy is the children. I would do  anything to protect mine. After I was told of the threat from humanity  I left my theoretical studies and agreed to design the prototype  weapon. When it arrived in your star system, I watched the incoming  telemetry with the other members of the Council. Seven million lives  were extinguished in front of my eyes. I asked myself how many of those  were children. I suppose I've told you this before.
ARCHER: Actually, you haven't.
DEGRA: Three years. My children may not even recognise me after so  much.
ARCHER: We're being hailed. Whoever it is, they must be pretty far  away. I'll try to clear it up.
THALEN : Transmission. This is Thalen responding to your distress  call. Please acknowledge.
DEGRA: It's one of my colleagues.
DEGRA: Thalen, can you  hear me? It's Degra.
THALEN : Degra? It's good to hear your voice. I'd heard from my  sources
HOSHI: That you'd been captured by the insectoids.  There were reports that you had been executed.
DEGRA : They haven't killed me yet. I need your help. My friend and  I
DEGRA: Have escaped from an Insectoid prison.  Their patrols are looking for us.
THALEN : I'm losing your signal. Please repeat.
ARCHER: Better make it fast.
DEGRA: Thalen, where are you?
THALEN : I'm on Azati Prime. It's safe here.
DEGRA: Is my family still there, are they safe? Thalen!
THALEN : Naara is here, and the children. I'll tell them to expect  you.
ARCHER: At least you know they're all right.
DEGRA: There were more than a thousand primates and arboreals at that  colony. I don't understand why it wasn't destroyed.
ARCHER : We should still change  course. Do you know the coordinates? What's wrong?
DEGRA: You must forgive me. To me, it's been only a day since we were  enemies. Giving you the coordinates to a classified installation is  difficult.
ARCHER: Be my guest.
HOSHI: They're coming in. One one two seven point  four by four zero five two by three nine zero one point one.
T'POL: A red giant. Open a comm. line to the Captain.
ARCHER : You encrypted the navigation controls.
DEGRA: Yes.
T'POL : Captain, the coordinates match the location of one of the  red giants.
ARCHER: Do you mind if I ask how long it will take to get there?
DEGRA: Not long.
T'POL : Approximately three weeks at maximum warp.
T'POL: A considerable detour if the weapon isn't  there.
ARCHER: What will your people think when you show  up with me. Humans probably aren't their favourite species.
DEGRA: I'll tell them everything you did to help me. I'm a senior  official. There won't be any problems.
ARCHER: I appreciate that.
DEGRA: It's a diverse community. Far more pleasant than most military
TUCKER: Travis?
TRAVIS: The port hydraulics are acting up.
TUCKER: Shut them down.
TRAVIS: They're not responding.
T'POL : T'Pol to Cargo Bay two. Report.
TUCKER: The radiation from the debris is
TUCKER : Overloading the hydraulic system.
T'POL: Can you stabilise the simulator?
TUCKER : I'm working on it.
DEGRA: More anomalies?
ARCHER: I'm not sure.
T'POL: Captain, we're having some problems. Stand  by. T'Pol to the Bridge. Take us out of the debris field.
REED : Understood.
REED : Bridge to the Command centre. We're clear of the debris field.
T'POL: Acknowledged.
DEGRA: What was the problem?
ARCHER: Subspace turbulence.
DEGRA: Really. I'm curious, Jonathan. If we've been friends for as long  as you say, I must have told you the names of my children.
ARCHER : You still don't believe me,  do you.
HOSHI: There's something in his hand.
DEGRA : I'm sure I would have told you
T'POL: Magnify.
ARCHER : It's been years since you've said anything.
T'POL: Captain, he has a weapon.
DEGRA: I just need you to tell me.
DEGRA : What their names are.
T'POL: We're coming in.
ARCHER : This isn't necessary.
HOSHI: Piral and Jaina.
ARCHER: Piral and Jaina.
DEGRA: Which one is older.
HOSHI: It's not in here, sir.
DEGRA: You'll never find the weapon.
ARCHER: Take him to the Brig.
DEGRA: We were told humans were ruthless, but I  didn't know you were also skilled at deception.
ARCHER: When did you realise.
DEGRA: I had my suspicions from the beginning, but it was the comm.  signal from my colleague on Azati Prime that confirmed them.
ARCHER: We know your ship has been there, recently.
DEGRA: There's an Insectoid deuterium facility on Azati Prime. That's  the last place my people would have gone to hide from them. If it  weren't for that one mistake, your plan might have succeeded.
ARCHER: You gave us the coordinates of a red giant.
DEGRA: I gave you what you thought you wanted.
ARCHER: I guess I'll just have to wipe your memory clean again, go back  into the simulator and start this whole thing over.
DEGRA: I doubt there's time for that. We both know my people are  searching for me.
ARCHER: I think you didn't figure it out until after the malfunction.  I'd be willing to bet those co-ordinates are real.
DEGRA: Then I suggest you proceed there at maximum warp.
HOSHI: Why would he encrypt the coordinates if  they weren't accurate?
T'POL: Perhaps he thought it would make them appear more convincing.
TUCKER: He's got to be lying, sir. Something must have happened during  the radiation surge that tipped him off.
ARCHER: We can't afford to lose three weeks if the weapon isn't there.  Have you learned anything more about how they open the subspace  vortices?
TUCKER: They use some kind of phase deflector pulses. Once they're in,  their ships can travel half a dozen light years in a couple of minutes.
ARCHER: I want to see all the data you've collected.
ARCHER: Archer to the Bridge.
ARCHER : We're ready.
T'POL: Tactical alert. Engage.
REED: Open it.
SECURITY: Sir.
REED: You two, come with me. I said move!
TUCKER: We'll fracture the hull if this goes on  any longer.
T'POL : Hull breaches on decks D and E.
ARCHER: Emergency bulkheads! You're the engineer?
THALEN: Yes.
ARCHER: You're going to help us. We adapted your technology, used our  main deflector to open a subspace vortex.
DEGRA: That's impossible.
TUCKER: The vortex is starting to collapse. I need you to stabilise it.
ARCHER: If you don't do what he says, this ship will break apart.  Lieutenant.
ARCHER: Tell him to do what he's told.
DEGRA: Do nothing to help them.
TUCKER: The pylons are buckling.
T'POL : Engineering, we're losing hull integrity.
ARCHER: Trip.
TUCKER: It wasn't me, Captain.
TUCKER: I'll be damned.  Travis inverted the warp field. It dropped us back into normal space.
T'POL : T'Pol to Captain Archer.
ARCHER: Go ahead.
T'POL : Please report to the Bridge.
ARCHER: Take him back to the Brig.
ARCHER: Report.
T'POL: We've reached the coordinates. Ensign, magnify.
REED: I'm picking up several Xindi vessels. I'm also reading  significant quantities of kemocite.
ARCHER: What's our status?
REED: Minimal damage. The hull plating's coming back online.
ARCHER: Arm all weapons. Lay in a course for those kemocite signatures,  full impulse. Get him out of here.
DEGRA: You'll never get close to the weapon! Our defence perimeter will  destroy you!
ARCHER: Show him.
ARCHER: Thanks for your help. Take him to Sickbay.
ARCHER: I think you overdid the turbulence just a little,  Ensign.
TRAVIS: I'll try to do better next time, sir.
ARCHER: How's it coming?
T'POL: We've made it appear as if a plasma conduit ruptured, rendering  them unconscious.
PHLOX: I'm injecting them with trace amounts of the plasma. It won't be  harmful.
T'POL: This accident won't explain how their computer core was deleted.
ARCHER: As long as they don't know we were here, we can leave them with  a mystery.  Go ahead.
REED : The Xindi vessel's less than an hour away, sir.
