ARCHER: Biosigns?
T'POL: None that I can detect, but its hull seems to be scattering our  sensors.
ARCHER: Any idea what happened?
REED: I'm not reading any weapons signatures. Possibly some sort of  accident.
ARCHER: Bring it into Launch bay two.
REED: There's no windows. I'm not sure whether  this end's the bow or the stern.
T'POL: Captain. This might be a hatch.
REED: If it is, it's been fused shut. With your permission, sir?
T'POL: He's human.
PHLOX: This was a human male. A microcellular scan  should tell us his age at the time of death. Apparently, you're not the  first humans out this far.
ARCHER: Whoever this is, he's rewritten our history books. Can you get  a DNA sample?
PHLOX: The tissue damage is extensive, but I should be able to isolate  a few fragments.
ARCHER: If he's a member of Starfleet, his genetic profile is probably  in our database. Run a comparison as soon as you can.
PHLOX: Absolutely.
T'POL: There aren't any ships or inhabited systems for several light  years.
ARCHER: I wonder if this could be Zephram Cochrane. They say he was  piloting a one-man vessel when he disappeared.
T'POL: How could he have travelled this far?
ARCHER: There were a lot of rumours after he was lost. One of them said  he was testing some kind of experimental warp ship. Any markings on the  hull or control panels?
T'POL: We haven't found any.
REED: The hull seems to absorb EM radiation.  Without all this damage, it never would have shown up on our sensors.
TUCKER: Some kind of stealth ship. So what do you think, Travis? Could  this pilot have been a cargo hauler?
TRAVIS: We're more than thirty light years from the nearest trade  route. I don't see how he could have made it out this far.
REED: Maybe he got a ride from someone.
TUCKER: That's got to be a world record for hitchhiking. I still can't  find any plasma exhaust ports. Not even a thruster quad.
TRAVIS: There's nothing here that looks like a power source.
TUCKER: How did this thing make it into deep space without an engine?
REED: Could be an escape pod.
TUCKER: Even an escape pod would need some kind of propulsion system.
ARCHER: Any new mission you haven't told us about?
FORREST : I wish there was. It's possible the ship you  found was launched from Vega Colony, but they're a long way behind you.  The Earth Cargo Authority may have more information.
ARCHER: Phlox has sent a request to Doctor Cochrane's family. They're  transmitting his genetic profile.
FORREST : A hundred light years from Earth. You might have  solved the greatest missing person case of the century.
ARCHER: If we haven't, we've discovered an even bigger mystery.
REED: Commander.
REED: Registers as some kind of bio-matter.
TUCKER: Organic circuitry?
REED: Maybe we should get Phlox to come down and take a look.
TUCKER: Not a bad idea.
TUCKER: What's this?
TUCKER: Malcolm?
REED: I see it.
TUCKER: Good. Means I'm not hallucinating. How can a ship be bigger on  the inside than the outside?
REED: It could be a hologram.
TUCKER: Hand me that hyperspanner.
REED: You're not going down there?
TUCKER: Got to get my spanner back.
REED: We should call the Bridge first. Let them know
TUCKER: Say again, Malcolm?
REED: This gives space exploration a whole new meaning.
TUCKER: I've read a few papers on spatial geometry. I never heard a  theory that would explain this. The Captain'll never believe us. He's  going to have to see this for himself.
TUCKER: What do you think, a warp reactor?
REED: You're the engineer.
TUCKER:  Looks like a breach, overload of some kind.
REED: I'm picking up an energy signature. It's very faint.
TRAVIS: Sir, a vessel's dropped out of warp.  They're on an intercept course.
T'POL: It's Suliban.
ARCHER: Let's see it. 
T'POL: Minimal weapons. I don't believe it's a combat ship.
HOSHI: We're being hailed.
SULIBAN : You have something that belongs to us.
ARCHER: I don't believe I've had the pleasure
SULIBAN : We have a salvage claim on the vessel in your  launch bay. One of our cell ships discovered it three days ago. We were  sent to retrieve it.
ARCHER: That ship's an Earth vessel. The pilot's human.
SULIBAN : I'm not interested in the corpse. Decompress  your launch bay and release the vessel.
ARCHER:  I'm curious. What's your interest in that ship? There's not  much left.
SULIBAN : The vessel. Now.
T'POL: They're charging weapons.
ARCHER: You might want to contact your superiors. Ask for a man named  Silik. He'll tell you I don't respond well to threats.
TUCKER: This could be a release pin.  Let's get  it to Engineering.
T'POL: Forward plating is holding.
ARCHER: Bring us about, Travis. Power the phase-cannons. See what you  can do about their weapons.
TUCKER: Tucker to the Bridge. The comm.'s down.
REED: Commander!
HOSHI: Someone's trying to open Launch bay two.
ARCHER: Lock them out.
HOSHI: I can't.
ARCHER: Archer to Trip.  Send a security team down there.  Return fire.
T'POL: Their weapons have been disabled.
ARCHER: Target their engines, and bring the grappler on line.
T'POL: Sir?
ARCHER: They wanted that ship pretty badly. I'd like to know why.
TRAVIS: They're moving off.
ARCHER: Stay with them.
TRAVIS: I've lost them, sir.
TUCKER: It was heavily shielded. Whatever this thing is, it must be  pretty important.
ARCHER: What's your guess?
TUCKER: Might be the black box.
T'POL: It could it tell us what happened, maybe even who built the  vessel.
TUCKER: That's assuming we can get it working. It seems to use the same  organic circuitry as the rest of the ship. Captain, I got to take you  down into that chamber. You're not going to believe your eyes.
ARCHER: Bigger on the inside?
PHLOX : Sickbay to Captain Archer.
ARCHER: Archer.
PHLOX : I need to see you immediately.
PHLOX: I managed to find only a few undamaged  cells, but they were enough to complete a genetic analysis.
ARCHER: Is there a match in the Starfleet Database?
PHLOX: No, but I did discover that our guest is no ordinary human. I  found an unusual deviation in this nucleotide sequence. At first I  thought I was looking at some kind of mutation, but there was something  familiar about the chromosome structure, so I widened my search to  include the interspecies database. This nucleotide sequence is Vulcan.
ARCHER: How did a human end up with Vulcan DNA?
PHLOX: The likeliest explanation is that he had at least one Vulcan  ancestor further back than a great-grandparent.
ARCHER: That's not possible. We haven't known the Vulcans long enough.
PHLOX: I also found genetic material belonging to several other  species. This sequence is Terrelian. There's another I can't identify.  I believe this individual is the result of several generations of  interspecies breeding.
ARCHER: Thank you, Doctor. T'Pol.
T'POL: A database from the future?
ARCHER: Our time-travelling friend Daniels left it in his quarters.
T'POL: I'm not certain Daniels would approve of this.
ARCHER: We'll keep it to ourselves.
T'POL: A Vulcan cruiser. I don't recognise the configuration.
ARCHER: That's because it hasn't been built yet.
T'POL: Few Vulcans have ever chosen to mate with another species.
ARCHER: Worried about contaminating your genome with a little human  DNA?
T'POL: There are significant biological differences between the  species. It's unlikely we could reproduce. Humans and Vulcans.
ARCHER:  That could be it.
T'POL: The dorsal section is the wrong shape.
ARCHER:  If a human and a Vulcan did have  a child, I wonder if he'd have pointed ears. There. I think that's it.  Look at the commission date. That's almost nine hundred years from now.  Daniels talked about historians from the future. People who traveled  back to study the past. That could be what this pilot was doing.
T'POL: This says it's powered by a temporal displacement drive.
ARCHER: If the Suliban get their hands on this, they'll take it apart,   maybe learn how the engines work. That could  change the course of the Temporal Cold War.
T'POL: Assuming the vessel is from the future, why haven't they  retrieved it?
ARCHER:  Archer.
TRAVIS : Sir, there's an alien vessel's approaching at high warp.
ARCHER: Suliban?
TRAVIS : No, sir. We can't identify them.
TRAVIS: Twenty thousand kilometres and closing.
ARCHER: T'Pol?
T'POL: The vessel's Tholian. They're extremely xenophobic. The High  Command has had limited contact with them. Captain, it's unusual for  Tholians to travel this far from their system.
REED: I'm getting unusual thermal readings. It's awfully warm inside  that ship, more than two hundred degrees.
T'POL: They're believe to be a non-humanoid species.
ARCHER: Open a channel. This is Captain Archer of the Starship
THOLIAN :  Jonathan Archer,  please establish communication.
ARCHER: Is there something we can do for you?
THOLIAN : We were sent to retrieve the vessel.
ARCHER: I'd like to know how you heard about that ship.
THOLIAN: It is dangerous to you. Temporal radiation.
ARCHER: Thanks for the warning, but we can't give it to you.
T'POL: They've locked on to us with a tractor beam.
TRAVIS: We're losing speed.
ARCHER: Hull plating. Arm the aft torpedoes.
REED: That beam's interfering with our targeting scanners.
ARCHER: Release us, or I'll destroy the ship in our launch bay.  Do you hear me?
ARCHER: What did he say?
HOSHI: I don't know, but I don't think he was paying you a compliment.
ARCHER: I wonder if there's anyone else who thinks they have a claim on  that ship.
PHLOX: May I join you?
T'POL: Please.
PHLOX: I found another nucleotide sequence in the pilot's genome. It  appears to be Rigelian. That corpse is full of surprises.  I didn't realise how late it was until my stomach reminded me it  was time to eat. You seem to be engrossed in your work as well.
T'POL: The Captain asked me to perform a metallurgical analysis of the  vessel's hull.
PHLOX: Anything noteworthy?
T'POL: I've discovered several unusual alloys. One of them is in a  semi-fluidic state.
PHLOX: More mysteries.
T'POL: To say the least.
PHLOX: I understand Captain Archer believes that the vessel travelled  here from the future.
T'POL: That's his theory.
PHLOX: Genetic anomalies, unexplainable alloys, the evidence seems to  be mounting.
T'POL: Perhaps.
PHLOX: The Vulcan Science Directorate. They've always been rather  reluctant to embrace unorthodox ideas. After they review our findings,  I have a feeling they might reconsider their opinion of time travel.
T'POL: It's not an opinion. It's simple logic.
PHLOX: There was a time when Denobulans believed they were the only  intelligent species in the galaxy. Needless to say, it was quite a  surprise when the B'Saari made First Contact. Many refused to accept  the truth even with the evidence standing right in front of them. It  took some time, and it wasn't easy, but eventually we were forced to  reevaluate our beliefs.
T'POL: Are you saying you believe time travel is possible?
PHLOX: Surprises, Sub-Commander. I believe in embracing surprises.
T'POL: I prefer to embrace logic. If you'll excuse me, Doctor.
PHLOX: Good night.
TUCKER: All right, let's start reinitialising the  power grid.
REED: Assuming that is the power grid. It boggles the mind, if you  think about it.
TUCKER: What does?
REED: That ship could be from the thirty first century. When I was  young, I always wanted to build a time machine, see the future.
TUCKER: You're probably the kind of person that jumps to the end of a  book before you read it.
REED: Don't tell me you've never wondered what it would be like. How  our mission will turn out.
TUCKER: Wondering about the future and knowing it are two different  things.
REED: If Daniels came here and offered you a chance to go to the thirty  first century, you wouldn't take it?
TUCKER: Some things are better left a mystery.
REED: And you call yourself an explorer.
TUCKER: Where's the fun in exploring if you know how it all turns out?  Hand me that micro-caliper. Suppose you could look into some future  book and find out the name of the woman you're going to marry. Would  you want to know it?
REED: Absolutely. Think of all the awkward first dates I could avoid.
TUCKER: Fine. So one day you meet Jane Doe. You go out a few times, and  you pop the question. She says I do, and the two you live happily ever  after.
REED: Sounds perfect.
TUCKER: Now, did you marry her for love, or because some book told you  to?
REED: If we're happily ever after, what difference does it make?
TUCKER: Well, we've got power. Now we've got to figure out how to tap  into these organic circuits.
REED: They're similar to the ones in the cockpit.
TUCKER: We might be able to salvage some of them, build an interface.
TUCKER: Now if I had a chance to see the past, I'd  jump at it. I always wanted to meet a stegosaurus.
REED: He'd probably make a quick meal of you.
TUCKER: The stegosaurus was an herbivore.
REED: If I could travel back in time, I know exactly what year I'd  pick. 1588.
TUCKER: What happened in 1588?
REED: England defeated the Spanish Armada.
TUCKER: I'm sure some named Reed had a lot to do with that.
TUCKER:  Now if I had a chance to see the past, I'd  jump at it. I always wanted to meet a stegosaurus.
REED: He'd probably make a quick meal of you.
TUCKER: The stegosaurus was an herbivore.
REED: It seems like we were just in here. If I could travel back, I  know exactly what year I'd pick.
BOTH: 1588.
TUCKER: How'd I know you were going to say that?
REED: I think we're spending far too much time together.
TUCKER:  Now, if I had a chance to see the past, I'd  jump at it.
REED: I always wanted to meet a stegosaurus.
TUCKER: He'd probably make a quick meal of you.
REED: The stegosaurus was a herbivore.
TUCKER: It was the weirdest thing. When we were  standing next to the ship, it felt like we were having the same  conversation over and over again.
PHLOX: I can't find anything wrong with either of you.
REED: We didn't imagine what happened.
T'POL: Captain, the craft is emitting some type of high-energy  particles.
ARCHER: This may be the temporal radiation the Tholians warned us  about.
REED: We've spent a fair amount of time around that ship.
PHLOX: The particle density's quite low. It's unlikely to have any  lasting effects.
TUCKER: How do you explain what happened?
T'POL: The radiation could have affected your perception of time.
ARCHER: Or maybe they really were reliving the same moment. Seal off  Launch bay two and evacuate the surrounding sections. I don't want to  take any chances.  How are you coming with the black box?
TUCKER: The power's online, but we still can't access the data.
ARCHER: Let me know as soon as you find anything. Dismissed.
T'POL: Can I speak with you?
T'POL: The radiation could spread to other  sections, affect more systems.
ARCHER: We'll keep an eye on it. The Vulcans are only a few hours away.
T'POL: I'm not certain we'll survive that long. We've attracted the  attention of two hostile species. It's logical to assume they're  searching for us.
ARCHER: I'm pretty sure we can steer clear of them.
T'POL: Perhaps you should destroy the vessel.
ARCHER: I'm not going to do that. I'm tired of these factions  interfering with our century. It's time we took a more active interest  in this war, gathered some intelligence ourselves.
T'POL: Assuming for the moment the Temporal Cold War exists, I believe  we shouldn't get involved.
ARCHER: Like it or not, we've been involved since we left Spacedock.  Daniel's hinted that there were other factions in this conflict. Maybe  the Tholians are working for one of them.
T'POL: Your curiosity is placing Enterprise in unnecessary danger.
ARCHER: This is the first chance we've had to get some answers. I'm not  going to pass it up. The Vulcans can get that ship back to Earth in a  few weeks. Starfleet'll take it from there.
T'POL: Captain.
ARCHER: I told you. I've made my decision.
T'POL: If the Suliban return, they may be cloaked. I recommend we go to  Tactical Alert.
ARCHER: What do you have?
TUCKER: It's what we don't have. This isn't a black box. We thought it  was a data storage matrix, but after we got the power running it  started generating a subspace signature. I think it's a  micro-transmitter, some kind of emergency beacon.
T'POL : Bridge to Captain Archer. Several Suliban vessels are  approaching.
ARCHER: On my way.
T'POL : Acknowledged.
T'POL: The ships will be within weapons range in  twenty seconds.
ARCHER: Go to maximum warp.
T'POL: They're matching our speed.
ARCHER: How long to the rendezvous point?
T'POL: Less than three minutes.
ARCHER: Contact the Tal'Kir. Let them know we're bringing company.
HOSHI: No response. We're being hailed by the Suliban.
ARCHER: I see you brought some friends with you.
SULIBAN : Drop out of warp and prepare to be boarded.
ARCHER: Or what? You're not going to risk any more damage to that ship.
REED: They're charging weapons.
ARCHER: Take a look at your long-range sensors. There's a Vulcan combat  cruiser a few million kilometres from here. Unless you want to upset  them, I suggest you turn around.
SULIBAN : The Vulcans won't risk their ship for an Earth  vessel.
ARCHER: Aft cannon, return fire.
REED: We're losing ventral plating.
ARCHER: The Vulcans?
T'POL: Six hundred thousand kilometres.
REED: Direct hit to the launch bay doors. They're trying to blast them  open.
ARCHER: Hold your course and speed.
T'POL: Two hundred thousand kilometres.
ARCHER: Take us out of warp.
ARCHER: Biosigns?
T'POL: The crew's alive. The vessel is disabled.
HOSHI: Their comm. system's down.
TRAVIS: Captain.
ARCHER: Take us back to warp.
TRAVIS: Engines are down.
ARCHER: Weapons?
REED: They're offline, too. The hull plating's depolarising.
T'POL: The cell ships have dropped out of warp.
REED: I never thought I'd be glad to see the Suliban.
ARCHER: Trip, we could use warp engines
ARCHER : Right about now.
TUCKER: The antimatter injectors are fused. I'll need a few hours to  replace them.
ARCHER : How about weapons?
TUCKER: Every power relay on the ship's been scrambled.
ARCHER : Then forget everything else. Get that beacon working.
TUCKER: Sir?
ARCHER: Whoever built that ship might be able to  send help.
TUCKER: Aye, Captain.
T'POL: Even if you're correct, it's unlikely help  will arrive in time.
ARCHER: How long would it take to remove one of the torpedo warheads,  arm it manually?
REED: Four minutes. Less if I had some help. I recommend moving the  warhead as little as possible once we remove it.
ARCHER: Then we'll bring the torpedo to the launch bay, work on it  there.  You have the bridge.
ARCHER: I'm going to hold you to that four  minutes.
REED: It was only an estimate, sir.
ARCHER: They don't make this easy, do they?
REED: I'm going to release the couplings. You'll need to disconnect the  power conduits. The blue and red ones first. Turn the release  counterclockwise until you feel it detach.
CREWMAN: Commander.
TUCKER: I need that power module.
CREWMAN: Yes, sir.
TUCKER: All right, hand me a micro-caliper.
T'POL: Bridge to Captain Archer.
ARCHER: Go ahead.
T'POL : The Suliban have lost more than half of their ships.
T'POL: You don't have much time.
ARCHER : We're working as fast as we can.
ARCHER: Stand by.
REED: Sir, if you'll hold it by the locking brace.
ARCHER: I'm going to hold you to that four minutes.
REED: It was only an estimate, sir. It's happening again. We've had  this conversation before.
ARCHER: You're right. How far do you think we got last time?
REED: I'm not certain.
ARCHER: I think we may have removed the warhead.
REED: If time's not repeating outside the launch bay, the Tholians  could be close.
ARCHER: We'd better hurry. The red and blue conduits, right?
TRAVIS: The Cell-Ships. They've been destroyed.
T'POL: How many?
TRAVIS: All of them. The Tholians are on an intercept course.
HOSHI: They're hailing us.
THOLIAN : Give us the vessel.
T'POL: We're prepared to surrender it to you, but our launch bay doors  took heavy damage. We're going to need more time. I have a repair team  working on it, but they estimate it will take
TRAVIS: Two of their ships are approaching the saucer section. Eighty  metres. forty.
HOSHI: They've locked on to both docking ports.
T'POL: Seal the hatches and send security teams.
ARCHER: Get to the control room. I'll take it from  here.
REED: Aye, Captain.
ARCHER: I'm going to hold you to that four minutes.
REED: It was only an estimate, sir.
ARCHER: How many times do you think we've done this?
REED: At least twice, maybe more.
ARCHER: Let's hope we've got it down by now.
HOSHI: They're cutting through the doors.
ARCHER: Control room.
ARCHER: Let's get those doors open.
ARCHER: Now.
REED: I'd recommend putting more distance between us and that ship.
ARCHER: Now!
T'POL: T'Pol to Captain Archer.
T'POL : They've neutralised the warhead.
ARCHER: On our way.
TRAVIS: Sir, it's gone.
ARCHER: Gone?
T'POL: It dematerialised, and it's not aboard the Tholian ships.
HOSHI: They're disengaging.
ARCHER: Why didn't they fire on us?
REED: Good question.
T'POL: They may have only wanted the vessel.
ARCHER: The Vulcans?
T'POL: Their warp drive is damaged, but life support is stable.
ARCHER: Let's see if we can give them a hand.  Prep a  shuttlepod. Have Doctor Phlox meet us in Launch bay one.
HOSHI: Aye, sir.
TUCKER: I wish we'd had more time to explore that  ship. Who knows how many other rooms were down there? Looks like they  sent the whole kit and caboodle back to the thirty first century.
T'POL: There's no evidence to support that.
TUCKER: Well, there's no evidence to contradict it, either. What I  don't understand is how quickly everything disappeared. That beacon was  online for less than a minute.
ARCHER: You're forgetting that time is irrelevant to these people.
TUCKER: Irrelevant?
ARCHER: If that vessel was from the future, whoever sent it had plenty  of time to locate the signal and then travel back to any point in time  to retrieve it.
TUCKER: Unfortunately, time isn't irrelevant in my engine room. I've  got repairs to finish. See you later. Sub-Commander.
ARCHER: I'm going to contact the High Command, apologise for the  trouble we caused them.
T'POL: As the captain of the Tal'Kir pointed out, a ship can be  replaced.
ARCHER: I also need to thank them for helping us out.
T'POL: I'm sure the gesture would be appreciated. The High Command has  asked me to prepare a report on this incident, with your permission.
ARCHER: By all means. I wonder if they'll believe that humans and  Vulcans will be swapping chromosomes one day?
T'POL: They're more likely to believe in time travel.
