TUCKER: Maybe it's just me, but it seems like  these Vulcan star charts take all the fun out of it. We're supposed to  be explorers, aren't we?
ARCHER: That's the general idea.
TUCKER: Where's the exploration in going places people have already  been?
ARCHER: Well, for one thing, we've never been to these places. For  another, remember that protostar we ran across last week?
TUCKER: Yeah.
ARCHER: I'm not seeing it here.
TUCKER: Are you saying those Vulcan star charts aren't all that  accurate? If that's true, good luck getting them to admit it.
ARCHER: Come in.
T'POL: You wanted to see me, Captain.
ARCHER: As a matter of fact, Mister Tucker and I were looking at these  star charts. There's a planet a few light years off our current  heading.
T'POL: I'm familiar with it.
ARCHER: Well the data indicates there's a remote outpost right here on  the northern hemisphere.
T'POL: P'Jem.
ARCHER: I take it this P'Jem is under Vulcan jurisdiction?
T'POL: It's an ancient spiritual retreat. A remote sanctuary for  Kolinahr and peaceful meditation.
TUCKER: Kolinahr?
T'POL: The Vulcan purging of emotion.
ARCHER: That sounds interesting. How do you think they'd feel about a  visit?
T'POL: P'Jem is a place of quiet contemplation, Captain. I'm not  certain we'd be welcome.
TUCKER: It's because Vulcans think we smell bad, isn't it?
ARCHER: It's not every day we get a chance to see an ancient Vulcan  monastery. I'd say a stop-over's too good a chance to pass up. Unless  you disagree?
T'POL: I'll research the proper protocols.
ARCHER: Good. Archer to helm.
TRAVIS : Go ahead.
ARCHER: Prepare to lay in a course correction. T'Pol will give you the  coordinates.
TRAVIS : Understood.
PHLOX: Well, you must be looking forward to  visiting the sanctuary.
T'POL: It was the Captain's idea.
PHLOX: But such an opportunity to appreciate your cultural history.
T'POL: It is a Vulcan sanctuary, if that's what you mean.
PHLOX: Precisely my point. You'll be able to introduce some of your own  people to your new crew. Oh, I believe I see the source of your  misgivings. Being seen with a human crew.
T'POL: It could create a certain awkwardness.
PHLOX: May I?
PHLOX:
T'POL: In infinite combinations.
PHLOX: And what is diversity but a celebration of differences. I wonder  if you might remind me about our mission on this vessel. Please,  indulge me.
T'POL: Our mission is to make contact with those whom humans consider  new life and new civilisations.
PHLOX: In other words, to seek infinite diversity.
T'POL: I suppose so.
PHLOX: Well then, it seems to me a cultural exchange between your  Vulcan brethren and your human crew is simply a furtherance of that  mission.
TUCKER: They don't even know we're coming?
T'POL: It wasn't possible to hail them. The monks consider technology a  distraction from their spiritual pursuits.
ARCHER: I don't like dropping in on people unannounced.
T'POL: It won't be a problem as long as we observe the proper  protocols. When we arrive, we'll be greeted by a Vulcan Elder. You  should not speak to him or any member of the order unless spoken to  first. If they appear to be meditating, do not approach them or attempt  to make conversation. Also, maintain quiet at all times and do not  touch or disturb any artefacts, relics or ornamentation. If we arrive  at their time of communal kolinahr it's likely we'll be turned away. At  the conclusion of our visit we'll be offered the Stone of J'Kah as a  gesture of salutation. Accept it, then bow slightly and observe a  respectful silence for approximately five seconds.
TUCKER: I thought Starfleet training was tough.
TUCKER: You say this is a place to purge emotions?  Looks like somebody had to purge pretty bad. He bashed the door in.
T'POL: The temple is almost three thousand years old, Commander. You  can't expect it to be in pristine condition.
T'POL: He says we have arrived at the time of kolinahr. The order must  remain in silent reflection throughout the lunar cycle. They are not to  be disturbed.
ARCHER: Oh, that's too bad. At least we got to see the place.
T'POL:  Your service honours us. Before we leave, may I  request the offering of the J'Kah stone for my distinguished guests.
ELDER: Please wait.
ARCHER: Something wrong?
T'POL: It's probably nothing.
ARCHER: But?
T'POL: This is the main atrium. There should be more than one member of  the order present, and the icon in that shrine is perched at an odd  angle.
TUCKER: Oddly perched, huh. We'd better call Starfleet Command.
T'POL: That's not all, Captain. The Vulcan Elder seems agitated.
TUCKER:  You call that agitated?
ARCHER: You know, I think the oldest monastery I ever visited was in  Ngari, Tibet, but it wasn't nearly as big as this place.
T'POL: I've heard it can take days to explore this site.
TUCKER:  It'd take at least that long to clean  the place up.
ELDER: Forgive the disarray. Kolinahr encourages the members of our  order to face their vestigial emotions. The repercussions can sometimes  be violent. Please. This is the stone of J'Kah, which represents the  foundation of all we believe. A life of order and control through  logic.
ELDER: Ishte acula bestalma itok,  J'Kah.
ARCHER: What's all that mean, anyway?
ELDER: It is a traditional litany, passed down for generations.
ARCHER: Does it mean I get good luck or something?
TUCKER: You're thinking of the Blarney Stone, Captain, or when you pat  the Buddha's belly.
ARCHER:  I guess  you're right. Too bad we didn't bring a camera, huh, Commander?
ELDER: Please, you must leave now.
TUCKER: You ever been to San Francisco Zoo? Now there's something you  should see.
ARCHER: Friends of yours? Somehow I didn't think so.
KEVAL:  Stop looking at me.
TUCKER: Okay, okay. Don't get your antennas in a twist.
SHRAN: Why didn't you tell us one of your people  was aboard?
ELDER: It's an Earth vessel. I didn't know.
THOLOS: What does that mean, Earth? What is that?
ARCHER: It's where we're from. It's our homeworld.
SHRAN: Why did you come here? Answer me, pink skin.
ARCHER: This planet was along our course. We only came to visit the  sanctuary.
SHRAN: Liar. What's your mission? Are you a supply ship bringing them  more surveillance equipment?
ARCHER: We're not bringing them anything.
THOLOS: You brought her.
ARCHER: She's my Science officer.
SHRAN: So you admit you're working with the Vulcans.
ARCHER: I'll admit I have a Vulcan Science officer and that I came here  out of curiosity. Now, if you don't mind my asking, what are you doing  here?
TUCKER: Hey! He's telling the truth. We came for a visit, that's all.
SHRAN: We scanned your ship in orbit. You're very well armed for people  who came for a visit. You and the pink skins have proven what we  already knew. This is far more than a sanctuary.
THOLOS:  I'll enjoy having you, as a prisoner.
TUCKER: Now these guys are agitated.
T'POL: They're Andorians, Captain. They're known for their suspicious  and volatile nature.
ARCHER: Andorians?
T'POL: Yes, sir.
VULCAN: Our two species are from neighbouring systems. We've been in  conflict for many years.
T'POL: They resent our superior reasoning and our technology. They even  believe that we intend to mount an invasion on their homeworld.
ELDER: In order to alleviate tensions, we negotiated a treaty, but some  Andorian factions still believe we're bent on conquest.
TUCKER: What do they want with a three thousand year old temple?
ELDER: They believe we are hiding a long range sensor array. This is a  place of introspection, Captain. There are no spies her, and no  technology.
TUCKER: So what are you going to do, just sit here and let them ransack  the place?
VULCAN: Typically, they make a great display of their indignance. When  they find nothing, they leave.
ELDER: The Andorians were here twice before and both times left within  a day. Unfortunately your arrival has amplified their suspicions.
VULCAN: You've endangered us all.
TUCKER: No good deed goes unpunished.
REED: The shuttle's sensors should have picked it  up.
HOSHI: They went to visit some monks. Why would they scan for alien  ships?
REED: It should be standard procedure, that's why. In any event, there  it is.
TRAVIS: There what is?
REED: A vessel, not Vulcan, and it's less than one kilometre from our  shuttlepod.
TRAVIS: Not a lot of room on that landing platform. Maybe they're just  some other visitors.
REED: Well, I for one would like to know who these visitors are. And  why havenn't we heard from the landing party?
HOSHI: You can't expect them to check in every ten minutes.
REED: Maybe that should be standard procedure as well.
HOSHI: You sure you're not over-reacting? They're probably just taking  a tour, observing some kind of meditation ritual.
SHRAN: Where's the sensor array?
ARCHER: From what I'm told there isn't one.
SHRAN:  Where is it!
ARCHER: I don't know.
SHRAN: You humans obviously have emotions. I find it curious that you'd  select a Vulcan as your science officer.
ARCHER: Believe me, she wasn't my first choice.
SHRAN: Why a Vulcan?
SHRAN: Why a Vulcan?
ARCHER: She was assigned to us by the Vulcan High Command.
SHRAN: You take orders from the High Command?
ARCHER: No. For the last time, we just came to see the temple.   That's my ship, Enterprise. They're trying to  contact me.
SHRAN: Enterprise.
REED: Yes. I'm looking for Captain Archer.
SHRAN : He's a prisoner of the Andorian Imperial Guard. We know  you're in collaboration with the Vulcans.
REED: Let me talk to the Captain.
SHRAN : Your ship
SHRAN: Is under constant surveillance. Arm your  weapons or make any attempt to approach the surface and I'll kill the  hostages.
ARCHER: Wait!
HOSHI: I've lost the signal.
REED: Try T'Pol or Commander Tucker.
HOSHI: No response.
REED: Have the launch bay put shuttlepod two on standby.
TRAVIS: You heard what he said. If we try to send more people.
REED: I don't take orders from a comm. voice, Ensign. Not unless that  voice belongs to the Captain. Take a look at the Vulcan database. See  if it has anything on these Andorians.
HOSHI: Aye, sir.
KEVAL: We've searched all the chambers in the  eastern tower.
SHRAN: Have you checked the living quarters?
KEVAL: Not yet.
THOLOS: Perhaps if we decapitate one or two of those monks he'll start  telling us the truth.
SHRAN: Is that something you could live with, Captain?
ARCHER: I've already told you the truth.
ELDER: How long have you lived on the Earth ship?
T'POL: Nine weeks and four days.
ELDER: The smell must be intolerable.
T'POL: You get used to it, and I was given a nasal numbing agent.
ARCHER: Whose idea was it to visit this place? These guys are serious.  They're going to start killing you people if they don't find what  they're looking for.
ELDER: There is nothing to find.
ARCHER: I don't think they're buying that. Not this time. Loks like  there are four of them. I saw some kind of scanning console. They  talked a lot about searching rooms.
TUCKER: You'd think they could find whatever it is they're looking for  with those antennas of theirs.
ARCHER: They answered a hail from Enterprise. They threatened to kill  us all if anyone attempts a rescue.
T'POL: Mister Reed wouldn't be that reckless.
ARCHER: I didn't recruit my tactical officer to sit on his butt when  he's threatened. The Andorians smashed our communicators. The longer  we're out of contact the more likely Malcolm will put together a  landing party, warning or no warning.
TUCKER: Knowing him, a heavily armed landing party.
ARCHER: It's just a matter of time. So if anyone has a suggestion, I'm  all ears. No offence.
ELDER: There is an option. A transmitter. It's very old.
ARCHER: You said you had no technology.
ELDER: It hasn't been used in many years. It may not even be working.
TUCKER: I never met a busted radio I couldn't fix.
ARCHER: Where is this transmitter?
VULCAN: In the catacombs.
TUCKER: Catacombs.
ELDER: Please listen to me, Captain. There are hidden passages beneath  us where we keep our most sacred relics, our honoured dead. If the  Andorians discover them they will damage our culture in ways you can't  begin to understand.
TUCKER: For people without emotion, you sure have a flair for the  dramatic.
VULCAN: Master Haadok, one of the founders of P'Jem. The transmitter is  this way.
TUCKER: Fellas.
TUCKER: What's  down there?
VULCAN: The reliquary. Our most sacred artefacts are kept there. This  is the transmitter.
TUCKER: Looks like a krellide power cell.
ELDER: There is one to spare.
TUCKER: No thanks. It'll just get in my way.
ELDER:  It's only going to get colder.
ARCHER:  You take it.
T'POL: You need it more than I do.
ARCHER: Do the Andorians have a transporter?
T'POL: No.
ARCHER: That gives us the element of surprise. We could bring an  assault team right into the atrium.
T'POL: The sound of the transporter alone would alert the guards.  They'd start firing before the team was fully resequenced.
ARCHER: What about this room? By the time the Andorians detected the  transport we'd be armed and ready.
T'POL: For what? A fire fight in close quarters with a dozen monks at  risk?
ARCHER: If you've got any better ideas?
ARCHER: There's room in here.
T'POL: I'm fine.
ARCHER: You're freezing.
T'POL: It's been twenty four hours since I took my nasal numbing agent.  The cold is preferable to the odour.
ARCHER: Come on.
T'POL: An armed assault would put all of our lives at risk, not to  mention the destruction of the sanctuary itself.
ARCHER: I'd say our lives are already at risk.
T'POL: Tensions between Andoria and Vulcan are high. Any casualties  would only make matters worse.
ARCHER: It seems like you're letting them walk all over you. They come  in here, they smash your relics, they beat up your people, then you  just sit back and wait for them to walk away?
T'POL: We don't believe in responding to violence with violence.
ARCHER: I admire your ethics, but right now a little violence might  help.
T'POL: You're beginning to sound like an Andorian.
ARCHER: You know, I came here hoping to gain a little insight into the  Vulcan mind. It looks like I'm getting it. You people think you're so  damned enlightened.
ARCHER: Problem? I'd  like to find a peaceful solution too, but I don't think that's going to  happen. However we end up dealing with this, I need to know I can count  on you.
T'POL: Are you questioning my loyalty?
ARCHER: I just want to know where we stand.
T'POL: I have never disobeyed your orders. 
TRAVIS: Sir, you're wearing a hole in the deck  plating.
REED: What is it?
HOSHI: Transmission from the surface. It's a modulated EM signal, very  weak.
REED: Put it through.
TUCKER : Enterprise, this is Commander Tucker. Repeat, Enterprise,  this is Commander Tucker.
REED: This is Enterprise. We can barely read you, Commander.
REED : What's your status?
TUCKER: Guess you heard we kind of walked into a hostage situation. The  whole place has been taken over by Andorians.
REED : Andorians, yes.
REED: I've been reading about them in the Vulcan  database. Militaristic.
REED : Blue skinned.
TUCKER: That's them.
REED : Well, what do they want?
TUCKER: They seem to think this place is some kind of a spy station.
TUCKER : They're looking for a sensor array.  The Captain says to sit tight.
TUCKER: He doesn't want to provoke them any more  than we already have. He also said to tell you we're working on a way  out of here.
REED: Are you certain we can't negotiate?
TUCKER: The Captain came back from his last  negotiation with a face full of bruises.
TUCKER : We'll be in touch.
REED: Understood.
ARCHER: Do any of  these tunnels lead to the outside?
ELDER: No.
ARCHER: What about this reliquary?
VULCAN: No one's entered it in years.
ELDER: To do so would be blasphemy.
TUCKER: I saw an old stairwell down there, maybe a metre wide. It was  right about here.
T'POL: That would almost be directly beneath the atrium.
TUCKER: There were three dim lights coming from the top. It looked  something like this.
KEVAL: How many times do we have to search the  same rooms?
SHRAN: Are you losing faith in our mission?
KEVAL: We've looked everywhere, we've run a thousand scans.
SHRAN: The Vulcans are very deceptive. It's here, I'm sure of it. If we  back down now, everything we've fought for is meaningless. If nothing  else, remember that, Keval.
TUCKER : Hey! Can you hear me? Hello? Anybody out there?
ARCHER:  I need to speak with you alone.  I have some information for you.
SHRAN: What is it.
ARCHER: Well, for one thing, I needed some fresh air. You ever been  stuck in a room full of Vulcans for twelve hours?
SHRAN: The information.
ARCHER: I'll bet their robes haven't been washed since the time of  Surak. Have you heard of him? Vulcan philosopher. He's the one who got  everybody to start purging their emotions. I don't know about you, but  I've learned really a lot since I got here.
SHRAN: What did you come to tell us?
ARCHER: Well, that depends. What do you want to know? All right,  information. Did you know that over seventy percent of the organisms on  my homeworld are bacteria.
THOLOS: What?
ARCHER: And here's something I think you'll find interesting. There was  a man in Canton, Ohio who once rolled a ball of string over six metres  in diameter.
THOLOS: He's wasting our time. Take him back.
ARCHER: There was a famous astronomer on Earth.
ARCHER: Tycho Brahe. He lost his nose in  a duel over a math equation.
SHRAN: You must enjoy pain.
ARCHER: Please, please, I can't stand another  minute with the Vulcans. Please.
ARCHER: A light at the end of the tunnel. You know what to do,  Commander.
TUCKER: Yes, sir.
ELDER: I don't have to tell you, Captain. We don't condone these  actions you are about to take.
ARCHER: No, you don't have to tell me. Just try and stay out of the way  and everything will work out fine.
REED: Phase pistols on stun.
CREWMAN: Stun, sir?
REED: The Captain's instructions were quite explicit. It's a console,  Ensign. It won't bite.
HOSHI: No, it'll just scramble your molecules.
REED: Crewman?
CREWMAN: We've heard stories, sir. It might not be safe.
REED: I've heard the same stories. Now get up here. Coordinates set?
HOSHI: Aye, sir.
REED: Then energise before we change our minds.
SHRAN: What is it?
KEVAL: Some kind of energy fluctuation.
SHRAN: We detected an energy surge. It came from this chamber.
T'POL: Perhaps you have faulty equipment.
SHRAN: Or perhaps you have equipment we don't know about.   Watch them.
REED: This is it.
THOLOS:  Most Vulcans smell of dust, but  you're different.
TUCKER: Something sure smells.
THOLOS: Did you say something, pink skin?
KEVAL: This can't be right. I'm detecting three new biosigns, all  human.
SHRAN: Where are they?
KEVAL: They're within twenty metres.
SHRAN: Where!
KEVAL: I can't pinpoint the signal.
SHRAN: Try boosting the proximity sensors.
THOLOS:  I've heard about your mating  rituals. That Vulcan women force their men to fight each other to the  death. Would you like me to kill someone for you?
ARCHER: Leave her alone.
THOLOS: Would you like me to kill him?
SHRAN: Find them.
KEVAL: They're very close.
REED: Will you be all right?
CREWMAN: Go ahead. I'll cover here.
SHRAN: Keval!
REED: This way.
REED: Two of them got away. They went down into the catacombs.
ELDER: I hope you're pleased, Captain. You've turned a place of  solitude into a war zone.
ARCHER: Where are the phase pistols?
REED: Here, sir.
ARCHER: If he wakes up, stun him again.  Let's go.
VULCAN: I'm going with you.
ELDER: Violence is no longer our way.
VULCAN: We must protect what is ours.
T'POL: They're down this passage. Thirty metres.
VULCAN: It leads to the reliquary. Only members of the high order are  allowed to go inside.
ARCHER: We'll do our best not to look at anything.
VULCAN: I can't permit it, Captain.
ARCHER: What would you suggest we do?
VULCAN: I'll disarm them myself.
ARCHER: You ever use one of those? I didn't think so. The Andorians  have seen your sacred relics. A couple of humans won't make much of a  difference.
REED: Captain.
ARCHER: Hold your fire. You might want to take a look at this.
ARCHER: I don't believe this.  Does that thing have imaging  sensors?
T'POL: Yes.
ARCHER: Take all the pictures you can.
VULCAN: Place your weapons on the ground. I  will kill him if necessary. Give that to me.
REED: Violence in a sanctuary, Captain?
ARCHER: Very disrespectful. Boy, did it feel good. All this time  they've been calling these monks liars, and all this time they've been  right.
REED: They've got enough equipment down there to see what any Andorian  is having for breakfast.
T'POL: I've completed my scans.
ARCHER: Give it to him.
T'POL: Sir?
ARCHER: Give it to him.
ARCHER: You've got  what you came for. Now get out of here.
SHRAN: How do we know you won't attack our vessel.
ARCHER: The Vulcans violated your treaty. Your people ought to know  about it.  You have a problem with that?
T'POL: Your communicator.
T'POL: T'Pol to Enterprise.
TRAVIS : Go ahead.
T'POL: The Andorian ship will be leaving the surface momentarily.  They're free to go.
TRAVIS : Acknowledged.
SHRAN: We're in your debt.
ARCHER:  Thanks for the tour.
