KIRK: Scotty, give us maximum shielding.
SCOTT : Aye, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, bring us about to a new heading of nine oh two mark  six.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir. Mister Spock, who the devil's attacking us?
SPOCK: Romulans, Captain. They were apparently lying in wait on the far  side of that asteroid.
SCOTT: A cold-blooded ambush. Let's give the  heathens a fight they won't soon forget.
KIRK: Negative. We've suffered damage and we're  outnumbered three to one. I think this is an instance where discretion  is the better part of valour.
UHURA: Captain, I've established contact with the Romulan commander.
KIRK: I demand an explanation for this unprovoked attack.
COMMANDER : Unprovoked? My dear Captain, your ship  trespassed into Romulan territory, in defiance of your own treaty. We  had no choice but to defend ourselves.
KIRK: We came nowhere near Romulan territory. I deny all charges and  plan to file a detailed complaint with the Federation.
COMMANDER : You seem to forget that invasion of Romulan  territory is punishable by death.
SPOCK: Captain, the Romulan ships are overtaking us. At close range our  deflectors will be unable to repel their attack.
SULU: Captain Kirk! An unidentified energy field is drifting into our  path.
SPOCK: Strange. It's not on the charts.
KIRK: But it may be just what we need to shake the Romulans. Batten  down, we're going through.
KIRK: Mister Spock, what are our chances?
SPOCK: The field is composed of highly charged subatomic particles. If  the density grows no worse we should be able to ride it out.
SCOTT: Hold together, little darling, hold  together.
SULU: It worked. The Romulans turned back rather than risk the energy  field.
KIRK: Reduce speed to sub warp cruise. We'll lay by here for repairs.
UHURA: After that ride, I could use some repairs.
KIRK: How are the repairs progressing, Scotty?
SCOTT: Just fine, Captain. We should be in tip-top shape in another  twenty four hours, no thanks to those Romulan vultures.
MCCOY: Nevertheless, we're still in business and I propose a toast to a  narrow escape.
UHURA: Cheers!
KIRK: Salud!
UHURA: To us.
SULU: He, this glass just leaked all over me.
UHURA: How do you like that? So did mine.
SCOTT: And mine.
SPOCK: It appears we're all victims of a rather bizarre coincidence.  The odds against something like this happening are astronomical.
MCCOY: What coincidence? We used to pull stunts like this in medical  school with trick glasses. Don't look now, but we've got a practical  joker in our midst.
KIRK: Now let's not jump to conclusions, Bones. Yes, we all got wet, so  what's the joke?
SCOTT: Twas probably a minor slip-up of the food synthesisers. I'll  check it out after lunch.
KIRK: Fine. Right now why don't we all eat up before our food gets  cold.
MCCOY: Another coincidence, Jim?
KIRK: I'm beginning to wonder, Bones, I am beginning to wonder.
SPOCK: Curious, very curious.
KIRK: What have you got there, Spock?
SPOCK: Captain, I found this device on my console. It seems to serve no  useful function, and
SPOCK: Captain?
KIRK: I'm sorry, Spock, it's your
AREX: Officer Scott, won't you join us for lunch?
SCOTT: No thanks, Arex. I'm just going to grab a sandwich and get me  back to work.
AREX: Very good.
SCOTT: One grilled cheese on rye. What the blazes? Hold it just a  doggone minute!
SCOTT: I said one sandwich, that's all. Someone turn off this infernal  food factory.
M'RESS: Excuse me for laughing, but
SCOTT: Go ahead and laugh. Big joke. I'll bet you two are responsible  for this, ay?
AREX: Hey, wait a minute. We didn't cause this to happen.
SCOTT: Tell that to the Captain. I'm reporting both of you just as soon  as I
KIRK: Okay, this whole thing has gone far enough!
AREX: Sir?
KIRK: I've just picked up my clean uniforms from the service chute and  when I put this one on, I discovered this.
KIRK: When you all finish laughing, I'd appreciate an explanation.
SPOCK: Captain, I never laugh.
KIRK: Well somebody certainly did.
M'RESS: Captain Kirk, look behind you.
KIRK: Really, M'Ress, you're going to have to be a little more clever  than that.
AREX: This is no joke, sir.
KIRK: Now what?
SPOCK: It appears to be a legitimate fog. Perhaps the humidification  system is
KIRK: Here, Spock. Whoops!
SPOCK: Amazing. This deck is covered with ice.
KIRK: And it was almost covered with us. I don't know what's going on  here, but it's going to stop before someone's hurt.
KIRK: There's that laugh again. Something awfully familiar about it.  What do you make of all this, Spock?
SPOCK: The evidence all points to one guilty party, Captain.
KIRK: You mean you know who's behind these stunts?
SPOCK: Not who, what. I believe our practical joker is the Enterprise  itself.
KIRK: Of course. That laugh, it's the voice of our main computer.
SPOCK: Precisely.
KIRK: Spock, I want all hands at their stations. We're going to run a  complete systems check from bow to stern and get to the bottom of this.
UHURA: Good, the Rec Room is unoccupied. At least we can enjoy our  off-hour without worrying about practical jokes.
MCCOY: Just what the doctor ordered.
SPOCK : All hands to your stations. This is a general alert.  Repeat, all hands to your
SULU: Well, what'll it be, a swim at the beach?
MCCOY: It is lovely, but I'm more in the mood for a nice quiet walk in  the woods.
UHURA: Doctor, that sounds perfect.
SULU: Then woods it is.
MCCOY: Ah, now that's more like it. Shall we?
M'RESS: Captain, crewmembers McCoy, Sulu and Uhura  are still in the Recreation room and do not answer the call to  stations.
KIRK: That's strange. Repeat the call.
M'RESS: Doctor McCoy, Lieutenant Uhura and Helmsman Sulu, report to the  Bridge immediately. Doctor McCoy, Lieutenant Uhura and
SULU: It's so peaceful. So relaxing.
MCCOY: And best of all, no practical jokes.
UHURA: What was that?
SULU: I'm not sure. It almost sounded like someone chuckling.
MCCOY: It was probably just one of the audio tapes rewinding. Come on,  there's lots more to see.
MCCOY: Lieutenant Uhura, I have to hand it to you. This is just what  the doctor would have ordered.
SULU: There it is again. Someone is definitely laughing at us.
MCCOY: I'm going to get to the bottom of this right now.
COMPUTER: Get to the bottom of this 
MCCOY: Okay, whoever you are, so we fell for your juvenile joke. Now  get us out.
COMPUTER: Fell for my joke. 
KIRK: Spock, quiz the central computer about McCoy  and the others.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. Question. Why are we unable to communicate with  crewmembers McCoy, Sulu and Uhura?
COMPUTER: Answer. That is for me to know and for you to find out.
KIRK: Did I hear that right?
SPOCK: Affirmative. The dysfunction is more severe than I thought.  Question. Are you deliberately holding our missing crewmembers  prisoner?
COMPUTER: I'll never tell.
KIRK: Let me try. This is Captain James T Kirk speaking. You are  programmed to obey any direct order I may give, correct?
COMPUTER: Correct.
KIRK: Very well. I order you to release crewmembers McCoy, Sulu and  Uhura immediately.
COMPUTER: Say please.
KIRK: Well, I'll be
SPOCK: I suggest compliance, Captain.
KIRK: Pu-leese.
COMPUTER: Say pretty please with sugar on.
KIRK: Scotty.
SCOTT : Aye, Captain.
KIRK: We've got serious trouble with the main computer. We have reason  to believe it's kidnapped three of our crew.
SCOTT : Kidnapped? Blue blazes.
KIRK: To prevent any further trouble, I want you to shut down all logic  functions until we can get a handle on the problem.
SCOTT : Aye, aye, sir.
UHURA: There.
MCCOY: When I get my hands on the clown who's behind all this, I'll put  him in Sickbay for a week.
COMPUTER: Temper, temper. Perhaps this will cool you off.
SULU: We've got a whiteout condition here. How will we ever find the  exit?
SCOTT: Time for a nap, old girl. Captain's orders.
SCOTT:  Engineering to Bridge. Emergency.
KIRK:  Scotty, what the devil's  going on?
SCOTT: Beats me, sir. Our gravity just reversed  polarity all by itself.
SPOCK: An obvious defensive manoeuvre by the  computer.
KIRK: This is crazy. Our own computer's declared war on us and I  haven't the slightest idea why.
SPOCK: I have a theory, Captain, but first I suggest that if Officer  Scott moves away from the computer, it might feel less threatened.
KIRK: Scotty, vacate the computer room.
SCOTT: Vacate sir? But
KIRK: On the double, Officer Scott.
SCOTT : Aye sir.
SCOTT: You bloody big scatterbrain. Make up your monumental mind.
KIRK: Congratulations, Spock. Your strategy  worked. Now would you tell me what's happening to my ship?
SPOCK: You recall that energy field we passed through?
KIRK: Certainly.
SPOCK: Apparently, subatomic particles from that field have invaded our  computer's circuits, much like bacteria infect living matter. As a  result, the Enterprise is suffering the electronic equivalent of a  nervous breakdown.
KIRK: What can we do to stop it?
SPOCK: I'm afraid I don't know, Captain. Its illogical behaviour  precludes a logical solution.
SULU: The temperature must be twenty below and its  still dropping.
UHURA: Look, this is still a room, no matter how it appears. If we can  travel long enough in one direction, we're bound to reach a wall. Then  we can feel our way to an exit.
MCCOY: Then let's move before we all turn into icicles.
CREWMAN : Search party seven to Bridge.
KIRK: Bridge here. Report.
CREWMAN : Captain, our sensors show the missing crewmembers are in  the Rec Room all right, but the door's jammed.
KIRK: Okay, stand by.
SCOTT : Engineering.
KIRK: Scotty, we need a work crew with power tools to open a frozen  door. Have them report to, report to
SCOTT : Captain, what is it? Are you all  Are you
KIRK: Come on, Spock. Where's that Vulcan sense of humour?
SPOCK: Hmm. Just as I thought.
AREX: Spock, what, what are you mumbling about?
SPOCK: Our air is being pumped full of nitrous oxide. Better known as  laughing gas. But it's no laughing matter, especially for Vulcans.
UHURA: This blizzard keeps getting worse.
SULU: I know. If we don't, if we don't keep moving we're going to  freeze.
KIRK: We must cure the computer by then or there's  no telling what we'll be forced to breathe next. Scotty, how's the door  coming?
SCOTT : Captain, none of our power tools work.
SCOTT: Some kind of energy drain set up by the  ship. We're giving it a mighty go with the crowbars, though.
KIRK : Keep at it. We've got three people in there whose lives may  depend on it.
MCCOY: You two better go on without me. My old  legs have given out.
UHURA: But Doctor, we can't.
SULU: Well, what do you know? Come on, Doctor, we're finally getting  out of here.
MCCOY: I hate to be a pessimist, but that may not be as easy as you  think.
MCCOY: Then again
KIRK: You don't know how good it is to have you  back on the Bridge, alive and well.
MCCOY: We're as happy about it as you are, Jim. I'd just like to make  one request.
KIRK: Sure, Bones, what?
MCCOY: Could you turn up the heat?
KIRK: I'll see what I can
SPOCK: Captain, we're underway.
UHURA: Engine room reports all engines shut down, yet they're firing.
SULU: Captain, the helm no longer responds. We're coming about to a new  heading.
KIRK: As soon as our course stabilizes, give me a reading.
SULU: Course stabilizing at one one four mark twelve.
SPOCK: We're heading back to the Neutral Zone.
KIRK: And you can bet those Romulan ships will be gunning for us.
SPOCK: Sensors are picking up three ships, Captain. Magnification shows  them to be Romulan warships.
SULU: We're decelerating, sir.
UHURA: Main cargo hatches are opening. I'll put them on the viewing  screen.
MCCOY: Jim, what in heaven's name is going on?
KIRK: You know as much as I do, Bones.
SPOCK: The Romulan ships have halted their attack. Apparently the sight  of a spacecraft twenty times their size has given them second thoughts.
MCCOY: Okay, I admit it's an effective bluff, but so what? As soon as  they figure it out, they'll destroy the balloon and us.
KIRK: Wait a minute. There is a method to this madness.
SPOCK: Please elaborate, Captain.
KIRK: The Enterprise is pulling her biggest practical joke of all, and  this time the joke's on the Romulans, the same Romulan ships that  damaged the Enterprise.
SPOCK: Are you suggesting that the Enterprise is seeking revenge?
KIRK: What else? She's going to make fools of the Romulans by having  them attack a balloon, and Romulans fear disgrace more than death.
CENTURION: Commander, there's no radio response  from the large ship.
ROMULAN: Very well, it has refused surrender. Advance at attack speed.
ROMULAN: We've been tricked. After them. I want that Federation ship  blasted into space dust.
SPOCK: The Romulans are giving chase.
MCCOY: They must be furious to follow us this deep into Federation  territory.
KIRK:  I don't care about the Romulans, I just want to  avoid that energy field we passed through before. Helmsman, do you have  a fix on it?
SULU: Yes, Captain. Our course will take us nowhere near it.
KIRK: Good! I couldn't face going through there again.
COMPUTER: The energy field frightens you?
KIRK: It petrifies me.
COMPUTER: How interesting.
SULU: We're changing course, to a direct bearing on the energy field.
KIRK: No! We can't!
CENTURION: Commander, our instruments are useless  in this field. We've lost contact with the Federation ship.
ROMULAN: We've got to clear this field before our ships break up. Bring  us about on a heading for home.
COMPUTER: My circuits! You tricked me, Kirk. How could you?
MCCOY: What the devil is going on?
KIRK: Bones, the worst thing you can do to a practical joker is to play  a practical joke on them.
COMPUTER: It's not fair.
SULU: The controls are responding now.
SPOCK: And I'm getting normal function in all computer modes. That last  pass through the energy field apparently reversed all effects.
MCCOY: Well done, Jim.
UHURA: Captain, I'm picking up strange transmissions from the Romulan  warships. Listen.
ROMULAN : Turn off those food synthesisers! We're knee deep in  desserts and they're still pouring out!
MCCOY: Shall we tell them how they can reverse the effects of the  field, Jim?
KIRK: Yes, but later. Let's not spoil their fun just yet.
