SULU: Captain, it is a Klingon ship. Rapidly  closing on its target.
SPOCK: Sensors indicate the smaller vessel is a one-man scout ship of  common design.
SULU: They're firing on him.
KIRK: Klingon battle cruiser, identify yourself. Ahead, warp factor  six. Scotty, lock the transporter on that small vessel. We're going to  rescue that pilot.
SCOTT : Aye, aye, Captain.
SCOTT: Locking on.
KIRK: Open hailing frequencies. Klingon battle cruiser, identify  yourself. You are violating Federation space. Identify yourself. Stop  firing on scout ship.
KIRK: Arm all phasers. Deflector shields up.
SULU: Phasers armed. Shields up.
KIRK: Ahead warp factor eight. Klingon battle cruiser, identify  yourself.
SULU: They got him.
KIRK: Scotty, have you got that pilot yet?
SCOTT : I don't know, sir.
SCOTT: That Klingon . That blast  decalibrated the integration parameters.
SULU: Captain.
KIRK: The new weapon. Spock?
SPOCK: Some kind of field effect, Captain. It will hit us in precisely  four seconds. It produces a most remarkable   disruption.
SCOTT: Now, what
SULU: Our engines are dead.
SPOCK: Captain, we have been hit by a kind of projected stasis field.  Our matter-antimatter generators are disabled. We are paralysed.
KIRK: Fire phasers.
SULU: The phasers don't work, sir.
SPOCK: The photon torpedoes will not respond, either. The stasis field  disables all higher-order field and warp functions.
UHURA: Well, we could always throw rocks.
SPOCK: This new Klingon weapon must be one of surprising power if it  can immobilize a starship. The energy drain on the Klingon ship would  be enormous.
KIRK: Scotty, did you get that pilot?
SCOTT : I got him in the beam, sir.
SCOTT: But I can't integrate him. The system's  been discoordinated.
UHURA: Captain, I have a message coming in, sir.
KIRK: Put it on the viewscreen.
KOLOTH : Ah, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Release my ship.
KOLOTH : I'd be delighted to, Captain Kirk, if you will  turn over the pilot of the little ship.
KIRK: That ship was a Federation-built craft. The pilot is under our  protection.
KOLOTH : He has committed ecological sabotage. If I have  to take him by force, I will.
KIRK: The first Klingon to step aboard this ship will be the last  Klingon. Full security alert, Mister Spock.
KOLOTH : I'm afraid, Captain Kirk, you'll find your  phasers no longer work, nor any of your weapons.
UHURA: Mister Spock, I'm losing contact with our robot ships. They're  not held by the stasis field and they're moving out of range.
KIRK: What was that? Lieutenant, cut off that frequency.
UHURA: Yes, sir.  The robot ships, they're moving  off.
KIRK: They still have power? We still control them?
SULU: Affirmative, sir.
KIRK: Bring them back, Mister Sulu. Have them ram the Klingon ship.
SPOCK: Captain, you can't afford to lose that grain.
KIRK: I can afford even less to lose the Enterprise. Open the hailing  frequency again, Lieutenant. Captain Koloth. I'm going to give you one  last chance to release the Enterprise.
KOLOTH : You're going to give me one chance?  It won't work, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: It will work, or he'd still be gloating. Bring the robot ships in  from two different angles, Mister Sulu.
SPOCK: Incredible. The amount of energy that field must require.
SPOCK: They couldn't maintain the stasis field.
KIRK: Keep your phasers locked on target, Mister Sulu. Hold your fire  until they fire first.
SULU: Aye, sir. Phasers locked on.
SPOCK: Apparently their battle capacity is down. They only damaged it.
SULU: They're veering off.
SPOCK: Sensors indicate their power cells are almost exhausted. They  probably don't have the strength for a prolonged battle now.
KIRK: Scotty, can you integrate that pilot now?
SCOTT: I think so, Captain.
KIRK : We'll be right there.
KIRK: Call McCoy to the Transporter room. Spock.
KIRK: Have you got him?
SCOTT: Just putting him together now, sir.
KIRK: I think we know that man.
SPOCK: It appears to be
MCCOY: I don't want to think about it.
KIRK: Cyrano Jones!
SCOTT: And he's got tribbles with him. Tribbles!
JONES: Captain Kirk. Friend Kirk.
KIRK: Seal off the area, Ensign. You know the law about transporting  animals proven harmful.
JONES: Captain, these are safe tribbles.
MCCOY: There's no such thing as a safe tribble.
SPOCK: A safe tribble would be a contradiction in terms. Tribbles are  well known for their proclivities in multiplication.
JONES: And they breed fast, too. And that's why these tribbles are  safe. They don't reproduce.
MCCOY: Don't reproduce?
JONES: I've had them genetically engineered for compatibility with  humanoid ecologies. See how friendly and loveable they are? And not a  baby in the bunch. They're great pets and profitable, too.
KIRK: Jones, how did you get away from Space Station K7? You were  supposed to clean up all the tribbles there.
JONES: Oh, well, I managed a short parole. I found some help. This is a  tribble predator. It's called a glommer.
JONES: Watch.
MCCOY: Well, at least it's neat.
KIRK: Why were the Klingons chasing you, Jones?
JONES: How should I know? Klingons have notoriously bad tempers.
SPOCK: That may be true, but they rarely enter Federation space and  fire on Federation vessels without reason.
KIRK: They did mention ecological sabotage.
JONES: Me? A saboteur? Ridiculous.
KIRK: Captain Koloth was pretty emphatic.
JONES: It was such a little thing. I can't understand at all why they  got upset.
KIRK: What did you do?
JONES: I only sold them some tribbles.
KIRK: You sold tribbles on a Klingon planet?
JONES: Well, I didn't know it was a Klingon planet.
KIRK: Tribbles don't like Klingons. That should have given you some  clue.
JONES: Klingons like tribbles even less. It was lucky you came along  and saved me when you did, Friend Kirk. I couldn't have outrun them  much longer.
KIRK: According to our computer files, Jones, you are in violation of  three Federation mandates and forty seven local ones. You're confined  until we complete our mission. Then we'll turn you over to the proper  authorities.
JONES: Captain, couldn't we talk this over? I didn't think so.
MCCOY: Jim, Cyrano Jones is right. These tribbles  don't reproduce. They just get fat. I don't think we have anything to  worry about.
KIRK: Not about tribbles, anyway. I am concerned about that new Klingon  weapon.
SPOCK: It is an energy-sapping field of great strength, Captain. It  immobilizes a starship and its weapons capability. But apparently, it  also immobilizes the attacking ship's abilities at the same time.
SCOTT: Aye, and if that's true, then it's a weapon that leaves them as  helpless as it does us.
SPOCK: I believe I just said that, Mister Scott.
KIRK: The practical advantages of such a weapon would seem to be  limited.
SPOCK: Perhaps, but there are logical applications. The key question  is, how long does it take them to recharge? They will probably attack  us again as soon as they are back up to power. And they will probably  begin by destroying the other robot ship to prevent us from repeating  the same trick. They want Cyrano Jones very badly.
MCCOY: He really doesn't seem the saboteur type, Jim.
KIRK: Yes. Status report on the damaged grain ship, Scotty?
SCOTT: Well, sir, we've managed to transfer all the grain aboard, but  it severely limits us. We filled the shuttlecraft hangars, all our  extra holds, and we've even got containers of that wheat, that  quintrotriticale, in the corridors of the ship. And then we've got that  other robot ship to escort, too. I don't like it at all, sir.
KIRK: Nor do I, Mister Scott, but we've got to do it. Sherman's Planet  needs that grain desperately.
SCOTT: Aye, sir, but we've got tribbles on the ship, quintrotriticale  in the corridors, Klingons in the quadrant. It can ruin your whole day,  sir.
SPOCK: Captain, sensors are picking up a Klingon  battle cruiser.
KIRK: Deflector shields up. Stand by phasers.  How fat do these things get?
SULU: Klingon ship approaching rapidly. Within phaser range in thirty  seconds.
SPOCK: Obviously, they can recharge their power in a matter of hours.
KIRK: Use the robot ship as a decoy. Have it change course and move  off. We'll use it again to give the Klingons trouble. They can't  control more than one ship at a time with their stasis field.
SULU: Beginning evasive manoeuvres.
SPOCK: The Klingon seems to be veering off. My mistake, Captain. They  were not veering off. They were attacking the grain ship.
SULU: But they didn't destroy it. They only wrecked the propulsion  units. They left the cargo intact.
SPOCK: Captain Koloth is quite a marksman.
SULU: They've changed course. They're coming in again.
KIRK: Ready phasers.
SULU: Phasers armed and ready, sir.
KIRK: Photon torpedoes. Fire one.
SPOCK: They're running away. Very odd. They did not use their stasis  weapon at all.
KIRK: Perhaps they haven't had enough time to recharge it.
SPOCK: Or the purpose of the attack was something else.
SULU: They disabled the robot ship.
KIRK: Scotty, put a tractor beam on it. We'll take it in tow.
SPOCK: Captain, that could be exactly what they want us to do. Tow the  robot and limit our available power. We're carrying the extra mass of  the first ship's cargo, and now we have the second one in tow. That  requires a great deal of power we won't be able to use in battle.
KIRK: That seems logical.
SPOCK: Thank you.
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock, do you have any ideas?
SPOCK: We could always throw tribbles at them.
KIRK: I thought Vulcans didn't have a sense of humour.
SPOCK: We don't, Captain.
SCOTT: Captain, we've got broken cargo containers in all the corridors,  and the tribbles are eating the grain.
KIRK: Get Cyrano Jones up here.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Any sign of Captain Koloth's ship?
SULU: Nothing, sir.
KIRK: Keep scanning.
JONES: Captain Kirk, what can I do for you? Some Spican flame gems  perhaps?
KIRK: Your tribbles are all over my ship. My security men can't find  them all.
JONES: You need better security men, Captain.
KIRK: Mister Jones, you are in enough trouble already.
JONES: Captain, a harmless little tribble. What can they hurt?
KIRK: Harmless, maybe. Little?  In  any case, they're eating the quintrotriticale.
JONES: The what?
KIRK: The wheat!
JONES: They're hungry, Captain.
KIRK: So are the people on Sherman's Planet. A little tribble doesn't  eat much, a big tribble does. And these are growing. Jones, is this the  ecological sabotage the Klingons are so mad about?
SULU: Captain, the Klingons are coming back.
KIRK: Speak of the devil.
MCCOY: Jim, there's something about these tribbles.
KIRK: Later, Bones.   Mister Sulu, release the robot ship. We'll swing back and pick it up  later. Deflector shields up. Stand by photon torpedoes. And all  noncombatants off the Bridge.
SPOCK: Contact in thirty seconds.
KIRK: Ready photon torpedoes. Fire one.
SULU: One fired.
SCOTT: That's done it. We're caught.
UHURA: Message coming in, sir.
KOLOTH : Ah, Captain Kirk. We'll take control of your  ship now.
KIRK: Not if I can help it.
KOLOTH : I want your prisoner.
KIRK: Much as I hate to admit it, Captain Koloth, Cyrano Jones is a  citizen of the Federation and entitled to Federation protection. I  must, much as it pains me, refuse your request.
KOLOTH : It is not a request. Don't force me to take  steps that we will both regret.
KIRK: Close channel, Lieutenant.
UHURA: With pleasure, sir.
SPOCK: Aren't you going to sit down, sir?
KIRK: I think I'll stand.
KOLOTH: Implement boarding plan C.
KORAX: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Mister Scott, we're going to implement  Emergency defence plan B.
SCOTT: Plan B, sir?
KIRK: Mister Spock suggested it.
SCOTT: Emergency plan B complete, sir.
KIRK: Open hailing frequencies, Lieutenant.  Captain Koloth, are you ready to release my ship?
KOLOTH : Release your ship? Kirk, you are monotonous.
KIRK: You don't know yet, do you?
KOLOTH : Know what?
KIRK: That we have immobilized your ship worse than you have  immobilized ours.
KOLOTH : I doubt that. Our instruments report nothing  except some undue transporter activity and   Kirk? Tribbles?
KIRK: Tribbles.
KOLOTH: Kirk, Cyrano Jones took a Klingon genetic  construct, an artificial creature from one of our planets. We must have  it back. It was designed to be a tribble predator. We are prepared to  go to war if we have to.
KIRK: You must have others.
KOLOTH : This was the first one, Kirk. We need it in  order to grow others from it. We need it to get rid of the tribbles
KOLOTH: Jones sold before they completely overrun  the planet.
KIRK: And that's all you want?
KOLOTH : Jones is not that important.
KOLOTH: We must have the glommer.
KIRK: Oh, well, if that's all. Mister Scott,  transport the glommer over to the Klingon ship.
SCOTT : Aye, sir.
JONES: You can't do this to me. Under space  salvage laws, he's mine.
SCOTT: A planetary surface is not covered by space salvage laws. But if  you want the little beastie that bad, Mister Jones, we'll transport you  over with it.
JONES: I withdraw my claim.
KIRK: Well, at least we can report the stasis  field is not as effective a weapon as we thought. The power drain is  too high and takes too long for the Klingon ship to recover to make it  practical.
SPOCK: Agreed, Captain. Tribbles appear to be a much more effective  weapon.
MCCOY: Jones' genetic engineering was very slipshod. Jim. He may have  kept the tribbles from reproducing, but he didn't slow down their  metabolism. You see, they're not just giant tribbles, they're colonies.
KORAX: Captain, the engine room is filled with  tribble.
KOLOTH: Well, we can do something about that.  Attack.
KOLOTH: He did it to us again! That tin-plated, overbearing excuse for  a starship captain did it to us again. Blast that thing.
KORAX: Any other orders, sir?
KOLOTH:  Yes. Don't do that again. Ever.
MCCOY: A simple shot of neoethylene will fix  everything. The tribble colonies will break down into their individual  units with a slower metabolic rate. And these really will be safe  tribbles now.
JONES: Er, what about the Klingons?
MCCOY: Well, unless they treat their tribbles too, that ship isn't  going to be big enough for all of them.
KIRK:  Say, you didn't get this one,  Bones.
MCCOY: Oh yes I did.
KIRK: But it hasn't  Someday I'll learn.
SCOTT: Aye, Captain. But you've got to admit, if we've got to have  tribbles, it's best if all our tribbles are little ones.
