SULU: We will intercept the cloud in the vicinity  of Alondra, the outermost planet, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, we are now approaching sensor range of the cloud.
KIRK: Readings?
SPOCK: It seems to be of irregular shape, some eight hundred thousand  kilometres across and about half that in depth.
AREX: It's immense. Twice the diameters of Saturn, Jupiter and Neptune  together!
KIRK: Put up our present position, Lieutenant Arex.
AREX: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Reading, Spock?
SPOCK: This is very curious, Captain. It computes as a strange  combination of matter and energy.
SULU: Captain, look.
AREX: Captain, Alondra has disappeared from navigation scan.
UHURA: The cloud could have come between us and the planet.
SPOCK: No, Lieutenant, the cloud has engulfed Alondra. Captain, the  planet seems to be breaking up. Its mass is definitely growing smaller.
KIRK: Spock, is it possible the cloud consumes planets?
SPOCK: It seems a logical assumption, Captain.
SULU: Sir, the cloud is changing course.
KIRK: That's impossible.
AREX: The course change is verified, sir. The cloud is now moving  directly toward the inhabited planet.
UHURA: But if it continues on that course
KIRK: Mantilles will die. Mister Sulu, increase speed to warp eight.  Push it to the limit.
SULU: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: Jim, if we can't stop it, millions of  people will die.
SPOCK: Perhaps more, Doctor. If planet annihilation is part of this  thing's nature, it might seek them out as instinctively as an amoeba  seeks out food. It may not consume only planets, but also stars. We do  not know yet whether it has any selective ability, but it could be a  thread to every planet in our galaxy.
KIRK: Bones, I need an expert psychological opinion. Do we dare tell  the people on Mantilles, try to save a few who could get away?
MCCOY: How much time do they have?
AREX: Four hours, ten minutes, sir.
MCCOY: It's certain there'd be planetwide panic.
KIRK: Blind panic.
SPOCK: On the other hand, notifying them may still save some small  fraction of the population, Captain.
MCCOY: Who's the governor of Mantilles, Jim?
KIRK: Bob Wesley. He left Starfleet for the governorship. He's no  hysteric.
MCCOY: Then tell him.
SULU: Coming up on the cloud, sir. ETA five minutes, ten seconds.
KIRK: Thanks, Bones. Lieutenant Uhura, send a priority one call to  Governor Wesley on Mantilles.
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: Captain, I'm getting unusual readings on the chemical identity  sensors.
KIRK: What kind?
SPOCK: Elements unknown in our periodic tables, Captain. I'm of the  opinion this cloud has come from outside our galaxy.
SULU: Captain.
KIRK: Evasive action.
AREX: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Reverse full power.
SULU: Full reverse, sir.
MCCOY: It's still got us.
SPOCK: The streamers are a combination of koinoenergy, almost an  ambiplasma with an unusually powerful attraction force.
KIRK: Prepare to fire all phasers into cloud mass.
SULU: Locked on. Phasers ready, sir.
KIRK: Fire.
SULU: Firing. No effect, Captain
SPOCK: The cloud appeared to absorb the phaser energy, Captain.
MCCOY: We're floating inside the cloud.
UHURA: All decks report considerable shaking up, but no damage, sir.
SULU: Captain, objects approaching on the bow.
KIRK: Deflector shields on.
AREX: Shields up and operating, sir.
SULU: More objects approaching aft, sir.
KIRK: Analysis, Spock?
SPOCK: The objects are some form of highly charged gaseous antimatter.
SCOTT : Engineering to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT: Captain, the power drain on the shields is  too heavy to hold for any length of time.
KIRK : I know, Scotty.
KIRK: Scotty, prepare the shields for an  antimatter charge.
SCOTT : Aye, sir. Engineering out.
SULU: Antimatter charge ready, sir.
KIRK: Fire.
KIRK: Double the charge.
SULU: Ready, sir.
KIRK: Fire.
KIRK: Well, Spock, any conclusions?
SPOCK: Only the beginning of a theory, Captain. It is possible this  cloud in which we are entrapped is a living thing. The cloud is alive.  Yes, Captain, its components appear similar to those found in living  organisms.
KIRK: Bones, any opinion?
MCCOY: There's some resemblance. I don't know how much we can depend on  it. But I'll tell you one thing. We have to get out of this area. Those  mists out there are acting something like a macromorphase enzyme. If  the shields don't stay up, the hull will be corroded and we'll all be  broken down into nice digestible particles.
SPOCK: I am inclined to agree with the Doctor, Captain. The mass of the  planet Alondra has been steadily growing smaller since we've been in  here.
UHURA: Captain, I have a subspace radio message coming in from Governor  Wesley of Mantilles.
KIRK: Transfer it to my quarters.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, use your scanners to assemble a diagram of the  cloud's composition and feed it to the library computer.
WESLEY : Three and a half hours, Jim.  That's not enough. Even if I had the ships available to totally  evacuate the planet.
KIRK: You have time to save some people, Bob.
WESLEY : That won't be long enough either, but it'll have  to do.
KIRK: How are you going to choose?
WESLEY : There is no choice, Jim. We'll save the children.
KIRK: In three hours and twenty minutes the cloud  will reach Mantilles. Millions of people will die. I need your help,  gentlemen. Your analyses?
SPOCK: If we assume the cloud is a living being, we must also assume it  needs some kind of food to sustain itself.
KIRK: Agreed. Judging from the disappearance of Alondra, the cloud  lives on the energy it converts from the planets it consumes.
SPOCK: Exactly. It is like a huge bull grazing here and there in the  pasture of the universe.
KIRK: What about those blobs, Bones?
MCCOY: I think they perform the same function as teeth. They break up  the larger chunks of matter for digestion.
KIRK: Lieutenant, let's see what the scanners have come up with on the  cloud's composition.
KIRK: It seems to have some sort of anatomy. Arex, where are we on that  chart?
AREX: Posting Enterprise position, sir.
KIRK: The opening where we were drawn in seems to have closed. But  there's another opening up there on top.
MCCOY: If this thing does have some kind of digestive system, we don't  stand much of a chance of making it that far.
AREX: Three hours, five minutes until the cloud reaches Mantilles, sir.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Arex. Since we appear to have only one way out,  we're going to take it. Mister Sulu, takes us to that central core  area.
SULU: Aye, aye, sir.
KIRK: And if this thing does have a stomach, we just might be able to  give it enough indigestion to make it turn away from Mantilles.
SULU: We've reached the entrance to the central core, Captain.
MCCOY: What do we do now, knock?
KIRK: No need, Bones. Here we go.
UHURA: What are those things?
MCCOY: I think we're in what corresponds to the small intestine. Those  things growing out of the wall would be similar to villi.
KIRK: Villi?
MCCOY: The human small intestine is lined with millions of them, to  absorb nutrients into the body.
SPOCK: Captain, those villi are antimatter. It the Enterprise touches  one of them
KIRK: We'll explode. Mister Sulu, keep the deflectors up at all costs.
SULU: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Incredible. They're destroyed on contact with the matter this  thing takes in and then they regenerate immediately.
SCOTT : Scott to Bridge.
KIRK: Yes, Scotty.
SCOTT : Keeping the deflectors this high
SCOTT: Is putting an enormous strain on the  engines, Captain. Especially the antimatter. What with the maximum  power demands and all, the reserve is falling fast.
KIRK: How much time do we have?
SCOTT : Twenty one minutes, sir.
SCOTT: But if the indicator goes below two  anti-kilos, the engines won't regenerate.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Scott. Mister Arex, try to  make your way through to the opening on the other side.
AREX: Yes, sir.
SULU: I can't hold it on course, sir. We're using all power.
KIRK: Increase deflector shields to maximum.
AREX: Screens to maximum, sir.
SCOTT: If we don't stop the power drain right now,  that'll be the end of us.
KIRK: And if we do stop, we'll be drawn into one of the villi and the  ship will explode.
SCOTT: Captain, you said that villi are antimatter. If we could get a  piece of it, I could put it in the antimatter engine and it would  regenerate. We'd have enough power for the engines and the shields to  go on maximum again.
KIRK: We need both the matter and the antimatter engines regenerated.
SCOTT: Matter's no problem. We could beam aboard some of the planet  chunks out there. And we can cut a piece of the antimatter villi with  the tractor beams and transport it aboard like that.
KIRK: Bring it aboard? If the antimatter touches the inside of the ship  or any of us, we'll be blown to bits.
SCOTT: I can rig a force field box that'll hold the villi suspended in  the centre. Then I can take it into the antimatter nacelle, put it into  the regenerating chamber and release the forcefield by remote control.
KIRK: Scotty, we've got ten minutes left.
SCOTT: The force field is holding. Let's go.
SCOTT: Well, that gives us two minutes. All right, Gabler, open it.   Close it.
KIRK: Scotty, you've just given the Enterprise and Mantilles a chance  to live.
SCOTT: Thank you, sir.
KIRK: Situation, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: The cloud is now only forty two minutes, fourteen seconds from  Mantilles, Captain. And we have ascertained an important fact. This  being does have a brain.
KIRK: Intelligent?
SPOCK: Impossible to say at this moment, Captain. It has made only one  action which might be interpreted as intelligent. It changed course  from Alondra toward Mantilles. But that could have been an involuntary  response to the sensing of food.
KIRK: Where is the brain located?
SPOCK: That irregularly shaped object at the top of the core emanates  considerable electrical activity.
MCCOY: It's pretty certain to be the brain, Jim. The functioning of the  brain is basically electric.
KIRK: If we can reach it before the cloud gets to Mantilles, we might  be able to save the planet. We'll use the photon torpedoes to destroy  the brain.
SPOCK: Captain, this is a living creature. Starfleet regulations
KIRK: I know the regulations against the killing of intelligent life  forms, Mister Spock. But we don't know this life form is intelligent.  And we do know the people on Mantilles are doomed if we don't stop it.  If I have to be a judge, I decide in favour of saving Mantilles.
KIRK: Am I doing the right thing, Bones? Once, I  said, man rose above primitiveness by vowing 'I will not kill today.'
MCCOY: But you can't let this thing destroy over eighty million lives,  either.
SPOCK: Captain, I have completed the analysis of the target area.  Unfortunately, the brain is so vast, our entire offensive armament will  not assure its destruction. However, the brain could be completely  destroyed if we convert the entire ship to energy, aimed at the brain's  cortex, and expend the energy in one mortal strike.
MCCOY: That sounds like you're telling us to blow up the ship.
SPOCK: I believe that is what I just said, Doctor.
KIRK: Your figures are specific and absolutely correct, of course?  You're sure it will do the job?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. Quite sure.
KIRK: Kirk to Engineering.
SCOTT : Engineering. Scott here.
KIRK : Mister Scott, prepare the self-destruct  mechanism in the Engineering core.
KIRK: Computer control will be on the Bridge when  it's time to trigger it.
SCOTT : Aye, sir.
UHURA: Incoming message, sir. It's Governor Wesley of Mantilles.
KIRK: Put it on the viewscreen, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Yes, sir. Go ahead, Governor.
WESLEY : Jim.
KIRK: Bob. Is the evacuation proceeding?
WESLEY : As best it can. There was some hysteria at the  beginning, but most agreed to let the children be taken off first. But  it's only five thousand children out of eighty two million people.
KIRK: I know.
WESLEY : We can see the cloud approaching, Jim.
SULU: Thirty one minutes and four seconds to Mantilles, sir.
KIRK: Bob, where's Katie?
WESLEY : Here, with me.
KIRK: Don't worry, Bon. She'll be all right. Goodbye.
WESLEY : Goodbye, Jim.
MCCOY: Who's Katie?
KIRK: His daughter. She's eleven. Spock, is there any way we could  establish whether or not it is definitely intelligent? Perhaps a Vulcan  mind touch.
SPOCK: It would require physical contact, which is impossible, Captain.  But I may be able to reach out with my mind. If we focus our sensors  onto the cloud's synaptic electrical impulses, the input could be  routed to the ship's computer for analysis into thought.
UHURA: I can link in the universal translator and put it on the audio  system from here.
KIRK: Can you do it in time?
SPOCK: It is impossible to calculate, Captain. There are too many  unknown factors. I can only try to accomplish the link. No more.
SULU: Twenty six minutes exactly to Mantilles, sir.
KIRK: All right, Spock. Get at it.
SCOTT: The procedure is ready, sir.
KIRK: Thank you, Scotty.
SPOCK: Ready, Captain.  Listen to me. Listen to me. You are not  alone here, there is someone else. Listen to me.
CLOUD : What?
SPOCK : You are not alone here, there is someone else. Listen to  me. Listen to me.
CLOUD : What you?
SPOCK : I am another being.
CLOUD : Being? Where?
SPOCK : I am inside you.
CLOUD : Inside? Explain. Within me?
SPOCK : I am very small. And there are many of me. We are in a  spaceship within you.
CLOUD : Explain.
SPOCK : A small thing which holds us all.
CLOUD : Within me?
SPOCK : Within you.
CLOUD : Explain.
SPOCK : We came to think to you. You consumed us. You thought we  were food.
CLOUD : Why? Why you think to me?
SPOCK : Many of us live on the things you consume.
CLOUD : Things I consume?
SPOCK : Yes. Many of us are on the thing near you now. Do not  consume it.
CLOUD : Explain.
SPOCK : The spherical thing ahead of you, the matter you intend to  consume, sense it closely.
KIRK: How near is Mantilles, Mister Arex?
AREX: The cloud will envelope it in three minutes, twenty seconds, sir.
CLOUD : Perceive many somethings. So small.
SPOCK : They are beings. Alive, like you. They will all die if you  consume that thing.
CLOUD : Too small.
SPOCK : Explain.
CLOUD : I am small. Some things I perceive too small. Not alive  beings.
SPOCK : Listen to me. I'm going to come into your thoughts. And at  the same time, you will come into mine.
CLOUD : Necessary?
SPOCK : Yes. Very.
CLOUD : Proceed.
KIRK: Bones, he's the cloud. Its thoughts are here. Don't move.  Lieutenant, use the library computer. Put some views of the Earth onto  that screen.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: This is the thing we come from. Lieutenant, this is what I want.
SCOTT: Awaiting your order, Captain.
KIRK: A few seconds, Scotty. We have to give Spock that much.
MCCOY: Jim, if we don't self-destruct now all those people will die.
SULU: The cloud has stopped, sir.
CLOUD : Comprehend. Not desire to consume other beings.
KIRK: Quiet.
SPOCK : There are many things in our galaxy like the one you just  perceived.
CLOUD : Truth?
SPOCK : Truth. You do not desire to consume other beings. It would  be best if you return to your origin. The way you came. Will you do  this?
CLOUD : A long journey.
SPOCK : Will you return?
CLOUD : Will return to origin place.
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, contact Governor Wesley. Tell him to bring his  ships back.
UHURA: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Spock, you did it! The cloud is leaving.
SPOCK: I believe so, Captain. There is a grid at the top of the brain  core. It uses it to sense. We can escape the cloud through it.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, let's get out of here, through that grid.
SULU: Yes, sir!
KIRK: Spock, what did you perceive?
SPOCK: The wonders of the universe, Captain. Incredible, completely  incredible.
