SPOCK: Arachna is entering its cycle of strongest  emissions, Captain.
KIRK: Uhura, inform Starbase Twenty Three we have arrived at the gas  cloud and are starting to map.
UHURA: Captain, I'm getting some interference on subspace extreme upper  registers. If it's a signal, I don't recognise it.
KIRK: Source?
UHURA: The star Cepheus. From its single satellite. That area's never  produced radio transmissions before.
KIRK: Put it on the speaker.
SPOCK: Signals appear random. Perhaps some are beyond our reception  capability.
KIRK: Could be a natural radio source newly energised by
SPOCK: Correction. One isolated word pattern detected. If you accept  intersat code as still operative.
UHURA: Intersat? That's been out of use for two centuries.
SPOCK: The code word is t-e-r-r-a-t-i-n.
UHURA: It's stopped now, sir. No response at all to our signal.
SPOCK: Computers show no immediate information on the word terratin.
KIRK: Was the word totally random, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: No, sir. It was repeated twice in the transmission.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, lay in a course for Cepheus.
SULU: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: Jim, you don't mean you're going to abandon the mapping mission  to check out some meaningless signal?
KIRK: Meaningless at the moment, Bones, but it was sent twice. Odds  against that occurring in a totally random transmission are too high to  ignore. There may be some intelligence trying to contact us. Mister  Spock, continue research on the word terratin.
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
MCCOY: It's a waste of time if you ask me.
SPOCK: Only data is from early exploration. Planet is listed as Class  M, core molten, mantle and crust entirely crystalline.
KIRK: But nothing in the computer banks about surface eruptions.  There's our likely radio source, simply crystalline projections of  recent volcanic activity.
KIRK: Set for a single elliptic orbit.
SULU: Aye, sir. Entering orbit now.
SPOCK: I register a disturbance, Captain. As if an impulse just passed  through the ship.
KIRK: Type and source?
SPOCK: Unidentified. It's extremely faint and diffused. Captain, I  suggest we delay orbit until it can be analysed for nature and effect.
KIRK: Bridge reports.
SULU: All instruments functioning, ship's condition normal, all area  status lights are green.
AREX: Sensors detect nothing abnormal, sir.
KIRK: Bridge to Engineering. Scotty, how are your engines?
SCOTT: Purring like happy kittens, Captain.
KIRK: Bridge to Sickbay. Bones, we've just  recorded an unidentified impulse. Any effect on sensitive lab animals?
MCCOY: Nothing, Jim. The gossamer mice show no  signs of shock.
CHAPEL: Our halo fish is bright as ever, Doctor. Now, this species  loses all colour at the least environmental change.
KIRK : Very well.
KIRK: Well, Spock, your x-waves seem harmless  enough. Make your analysis while we proceed into orbit. Commence your  sensor sweep, Mister Arex.
AREX: Sensors show crystalline surface heavily fractured by lava flows.  Ash and smoke suspended in oxygen-nitrogen atmos
AREX: My eyes!
KIRK: Anyone hurt here?
VARIOUS: No, sir.
KIRK: Lieutenant Arex?
AREX: No injury, sir.
UHURA: Damage reports, all ship areas, damage reports.
SULU: All instruments functioning normally. Maintaining orbit. But  strictly on impulse power, sir.
SPOCK: Wave bombardment reduced, but continuing. Deflector shields  ineffective.
MCCOY: No casualties reported, Jim.
MCCOY : What happened?
KIRK: Don't know yet.
SCOTT: Engineering. No casualties, Captain, but  trouble aplenty with the engines. Every dilithium crystal connection's  smashed in the warp engine circuitry. We're trying to bypass them now.
KIRK: What about main circuits?
SCOTT: Well, you have to see it to believe it, sir. Those big crystals  in there have come apart. Each of them unpeeling like the rind of an  orange.
KIRK: Analysis, Spock.
SCOTT: Our only hope now is rewiring impulse. But there are a thousand  broken connections.
SPOCK: Captain, this is quite unprecedented. Notice the fracturing is  spiro-form, similar to long chain molecules.
KIRK: But dilithium molecules are the hardest, most rigid
GABLER: Mister Scott! More trouble with the circuit work.
SCOTT: What now, Gabler?
GABLER: All the tools, sir. They're too big for us to handle.
SCOTT: You sound like you're blathering, man. Wait, I'm coming.
KIRK: Spock, are you slumping?
SPOCK: I have never slumped in my life, Captain, but I was about to ask  you the same
BRIEL : Security! Anyone, please! Mess Officer Briel requesting  help in the Main Dining Room. Tables, chairs, silverware, everything  seems to have enlarged. Women losing rings, hairpins. Some are near  panic.
UHURA: Captain, the most incredible thing is  happening.
KIRK: We know. The whole ship has apparently expanded.
SPOCK: An equally good possibility is that ship's personnel have  contracted, and may be continuing to shrink.
KIRK: Take us out of orbit, Mister Sulu. Shut down all unnecessary  systems. Get every ounce of impulse power. We've got to get away from  this planet.
UHURA: No reply to our mayday, Captain. I don't  believe we have enough power to transmit to Starbase Twenty Three.
KIRK: Very well. Spock, what have you learned about the wave bombarding  us?
SPOCK: Only that it is complex beyond anything in my experience.
SCOTT : Engineering to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here. How are they holding out, Scotty?
SCOTT : We've replaced all the damaged parts we can. With all  that's draining them, the well will soon enough run dry, sir.
KIRK: Thank you, Scotty. Kirk out. Uhura, reduce mayday signals. One  per ten minute cycle. Cut down sensor sweeps, Mister Arex.
AREX: Visual sweeps are already impossible, sir. My eyes no longer fit  the opticals.
UHURA:  And I can't reach the dial I turned  five minutes ago.
KIRK: Kirk to Sickbay.
MCCOY : Sickbay. McCoy here.
KIRK: Bones, I need some answers. What's happening to us?
MCCOY : Come down tot the lab, Jim. I may have something for you  now.
MCCOY: There's the test tissue, Jim, compared with  the stable infrared.
KIRK: Then Spock's theory is right. We're contracting.
MCCOY: That's why our weight remains the same, same number of atoms.  The effect is just reducing the space between the molecules. It's  something I've never seen before.
SPOCK: Agreed. And it is accelerating.
KIRK: How long can it keep on?
SPOCK: Ad infinitum, perhaps, considering distance between atoms is  relatively as great as between stars.
CHAPEL: Doctor McCoy, the animals! They're getting too small for the  cage mesh. All the gossamers are out. And look how tiny they've gotten.  They're just like halo fish. It's tadpole-sized now.
SPOCK: Miss Chapel, what is the composition of this decoration?
CHAPEL: It was made for me by the titanium smiths of Libra, but it was  an arm bracelet. More like a necklace now.
SPOCK: Yet the uniform on which you wear it fits as well as ever.  Uniform made of algae-based xenylon, I believe.
MCCOY: Aren't all our uniforms xenylon?
KIRK: Yes, and they've all been shrinking proportionately with us.
SPOCK: This coral decoration for the aquarium is also shrinking. yet  the meteoritic rock in there is unchanged.
MCCOY: That means only organic matter is affected. But how?
SPOCK: The wave tends to wind tight such spiral molecules as dilithium.  There is one other molecular structure
KIRK: Of course, the double helix of DNA, nucleus of every cell in our  bodies. What happens when DNA is compacted completely?
MCCOY: The strands wouldn't break, Jim, they'd just quit winding.
KIRK: Then we can calculate the limits to our shrinkage.
SPOCK: It's possible. I'll feed the data into the  computer banks.
KIRK: Something else we'd better determine first. How long can we  expect to maintain control of our ship?
SPOCK: The computer will project the point at which systems' switches  and buttons will be beyond our ability to operate.
KIRK: Spock, how small will we ultimately shrink?
SPOCK: No information on that as yet, sir. I do have one read-out on  full spiroid wave analysis. That will take approximately eight years.
KIRK: Bypass that analysis. We've got twenty nine minutes before we're  too small to operate ship controls. Everyone continue to jury-rig  miniature control mechanisms. There's nothing more we can do.
SULU: But there is, Captain. Request permission to direct phaser fire  at the planet. Just let me set for ten seconds, sir.
KIRK: Aiming at what, Mister Sulu? So far all source studies have shown  the waves come from an area as large as one sixth the planet's surface.  Phaser fire will only waste power.
SULU: What good will it do to wait like this? Just one burst sir, one  single
KIRK: Sulu! I think his leg's broken. We'll need a splint.
KIRK: Let's get him to Sickbay. Every one back to stations.
KIRK: The electric eye. We've grown too small to make it work.
MCCOY: What happened?
KIRK: He fell from the console top.
MCCOY: More and more fall injuries coming. Compound fracture.
CHAPEL: Oh, if only we could use our bone-knitting laser. Doctor McCoy.  That microscope laser, the one designed to heal the middle ear,  wouldn't it work here?
MCCOY: It's certainly worth a try.
CHAPEL: It's in the lab shelf supplies. I'll get it.
CHAPEL: Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help!
CHAPEL: Help! Help! Help! Help! Help!
KIRK: No more climbing heights for you, Nurse. Got that clear?
CHAPEL: Yes, Captain. But I've also got the miniature laser.
KIRK: How is it, Sulu?
SULU: I can feel it knitting, sir.
SPOCK: Results on DNA reduction limits have come through, Captain.
KIRK: What are they?
SPOCK: Factor of thirty two point nine.
KIRK: In other words, we're going down to one sixteenth of an inch  high.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. Well past the operative point of Enterprise  controls.
KIRK: Can you calculate the geographic centre of the wave emissions  from the planet's surface?
SPOCK: Easily, Captain. May I ask the purpose?
KIRK: It's as good a place as any to beam down.
KIRK: Kirk to Engineering. Scotty, can you hear me?
SCOTT : Barely, sir.
KIRK: Get a crew down to transporter room three. We have twenty minutes  left while we can still operate transporter controls.
SCOTT : How many beaming down, Captain?
KIRK: One, Scotty. Myself.
SPOCK: This is the best I could do in rigging so small a communicator,  sir.
KIRK: Thanks, Spock.
SPOCK: It's range cannot be guaranteed. How will we pinpoint you for  return in case it fails?
KIRK: Scotty, set automatic return for me. If there's anything to be  found down there, ten minutes should do it.
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Timer being set.
SPOCK: Captain, the transporter retains a memory of the body's  molecular structure. Will it apply as well to your present height?
KIRK: We'll know that in ten minutes. After that, it won't matter  anymore. Prepare to energise.
SPOCK: Good luck, sir.
KIRK: Energise!
SCOTT: All right then. Heave, lads. Heave!
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. I think we have an answer to the height  problem. The transporter beam apparently returns our molecules to  normal spacing. Kirk to Enterprise, do you read me?
SPOCK : We read you, Captain. Wave bombardment has just ceased.
KIRK: I think I see
KIRK: Scotty? Spock?
KIRK: Scotty, is it you?
SCOTT: Aye, Captain. For the love of heaven, be careful where you step.
KIRK: Is everyone safe?
SCOTT: Captain, you'll deafen us for sure!
KIRK: Everyone accounted for?
SCOTT: All but the Bridge crew, sir! They were trying to man their  posts here when all of a sudden they were beamed away. Every living one  of them!
KIRK: All personnel, away from helm area. Go to the far bulkhead.
KIRK: Message to the inhabitants of the city on the planet below. I  hope you can receive this frequency and understand my words. Your  survival depends on it. All this ship's armament is locked on the  co-ordinates of your city. A demonstration, in case you doubt.
KIRK: You have one minute to restore my Bridge crew unharmed, or you  will undergo full barrage.
MENDANT : In the name of the Terratin people, I forbid  you to destroy us, Captain Kirk.
KIRK: You forbid me after what you've done to my people?
MENDANT : I am Mendant of all this city, equal in  command to yourself. We are people of pride, Captain, equal to your  own. We neither suffer insult nor give apology for actions. But I give  them now, for damage done your starship. Be assured, this land contains  much dilithium to replace that you lost.
KIRK: Where are my officers?
MENDANT : I request you to understand. We tried to tell  you our plight as you passed, that our adopted planet is dying. But our  great antenna was buried. We had no choice but to use our invasion  defence to reach you.
KIRK: You still haven't answered my question. Either you tell me what's  happened to my people
SULU : We're down here in the Capitol building of the  Terratins, sir. They beamed us down with their transporters. See for  yourself.
KIRK: Spock, who are the Terratins? Where'd they come from?
SPOCK: Descendants of an early lost colony, which  is why they retain some knowledge of starship methods such as  transporter mechanisms. These Earth colonists named and numbered this  planet Terra Ten.
SPOCK : Hence the present corruption of their  name.
KIRK: There've been no Earth colonists a sixteenth of an inch tall.
SPOCK: Exactly why they were lost, Captain. Spirod  epsilon waves are natural here, and shrank them to this size. It has  become a genetic characteristic now.
MENDANT : Our ancestors were too  small ever to be found again, Captain Kirk. We had to build our own  world, master our own ways, our own defence. We sought no outsiders,  asked no help. Now you see, Captain Kirk. We are about to lose all. We  had to force help from your ship.
KIRK: Your actions all but lost us our ship.
MENDANT : I do not know how to beg. I can only request.  Save as many of my people as you can.
UHURA: They had no other way to reach us except to  make us their size. They didn't mean us harm, sir.
KIRK: I can help no one under present conditions.  All Bridge crew prepare to beam aboard. Each of you carry as much  dilithium as you can find.
MENDANT : The Captain orders dilithium. Bring the  largest crystals in the city.
KIRK: Bridge crew, prepare to beam up.
SPOCK: Energise, Captain.
UHURA: Nice to be back aboard, sir, and fitting the room again.
KIRK: All crew personnel report to Transporter rooms immediately.  Prepare to beam down to planet surface.
SPOCK: The Terratins are making available all possible dilithium. The  crystals are small, but I believe they will provide enough power until  we can obtain larger pieces.
KIRK: Sulu, take over the transporter here. Spock.
MENDANT: Inform your captain. Great earth cracks will soon swallow all.  He must tell us. Shall we prepare to be rescued or to die?
KIRK: How's the helm, Sulu?
SULU: Responsive, sir.
UHURA: Subspace radio now operational, sir. Starbase Twenty Three is  reading.
SCOTT: Last of the crew beamed up, sir. Dilithium supplies are fully  restored.
KIRK: Mister Arex, prepare for immediate departure from this area.
SPOCK: Captain, what about the people on the planet?
KIRK: Mister Sulu, direct forward phasers at the Terratin city. Set for  pinpoint fire pattern.
KIRK: Spock, the macroscope.  Mendant, we  welcome your people aboard the Enterprise.
MENDANT : Captain Kirk, we welcome your eye upon  our city.
KIRK: We're now headed for your new home. The planet Verdanis, ten days  distant.
MENDANT : Is it beautiful, as we were told?
KIRK: Very beautiful, much like Earth.
MENDANT : People of the Enterprise, we have no way  to pay the debt we owe. But this at least comes from a meeting of all  our numbers. We name you honorary Terratins now, and for all time to  come.
SPOCK: We came rather close to making it more than honorary.
KIRK: Yes, I'd say just about a sixteenth of an inch close.
