MCCOY: Yes, just as beautiful as I remembered it.  Nothing's changed.
SULU: This looks like the same spot we beamed down on on
MCCOY: Yes, and all because I said this place made me feel like Alice  in Wonderland.
RABBIT: One side! One side! I'm late! I'm late! Oh, my fuzzy ears and  whiskers, I'm late!
ALICE: I beg your pardon, but did you see a white rabbit?
UHURA: He went that way, Alice.
ALICE: Thank you so very much.
SULU: Like you said, Doctor, nothing's changed.
UHURA: It's hard to believe they're not real.
MCCOY: Well just remember they're highly sophisticated robots created  by the planet computer to make your dreams come true.
UHURA: So think only happy thoughts.
MCCOY: My prescription exactly.
MCCOY: Lovely. They just don't make them like that anymore.
QUEEN: Off with his head. Off with his head!
MCCOY: Hey, what's going on here.
QUEEN: Stop him!
MCCOY: Enterprise! Emergency! Beam up!
MCCOY : Beam up!
MCCOY : Emergency. Beam up.
UHURA: Uhura to Transporter room. What is the emergency? Respond,  please.
KIRK: What happened down there, Bones?
MCCOY: Well, I can't understand it, Jim. Everything looked exactly the  same as before, even Alice and the White Rabbit. Then an army of  playing cards came out of nowhere, only they weren't playing. I was  lucky to escape with my life.
SPOCK: The Queen of Hearts and her cards are characters from Alice  Through the Looking Glass, Captain.
KIRK: I read the book as a child, Mister Spock, but I wasn't aware you  indulged in the literature of fantasy.
SPOCK: Light reading is considered relaxing, Captain. My mother was  particularly fond of Lewis Carroll's work.
KIRK: I see. Bones, were you thinking about that book?
MCCOY: Absolutely not! As a matter of fact I was thinking how beautiful  and peaceful everything was, and then suddenly this female started  shouting 'Off with his head!'. My head.
KIRK: Mister Sulu, did you experience any strange occurrences?
SULU: No, sir.
SCOTT : Transporter room to Captain Kirk.
KIRK: Kirk here.
SCOTT: Captain, just as I was getting a fix on  Lieutenant Uhura, contact was lost. She's still on the planet.
KIRK: Sensor scan, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Yes, Captain.
KIRK: Scotty, retrieve all other landing parties immediately. And keep  trying to contact Lieutenant Uhura.
SCOTT : Aye, sir. Scott out.
KIRK: Data, Spock?
SPOCK: Nothing, Captain. Lieutenant Uhura is not in the general  beam-down area.
KIRK: What about the Keeper of the planet. Did anyone see him?
SULU: I didn't. But then, he may not have wanted us to see him.
MCCOY: Well that doesn't make sense. It's his duty to see no one gets  hurt. If something's wrong down there, he should be there.
KIRK: His quarters are somewhere underground, aren't they?
SPOCK: Presumably they would be adjacent to the computer centre that  operates the planetary effects.
KIRK: Any indication of where that would be?
SPOCK: The underground complex is shielded by a combination of granite  and metal alloy and the sensors will not penetrate.
KIRK: Lieutenant M'Ress, all shore leaves are cancelled until further  notice. Mister Arex, you have the conn. Investigating landing party  will consist of Spock, Sulu, McCoy and myself.
COMPUTER: You are being detained so your master will not leave.
UHURA: My master?
COMPUTER: The sky machine.
UHURA: What sky machine? Explain.
COMPUTER: Your intelligence quotient must be lower than I had assessed.  I refer to the sky machine which enslaves you, the sky machine now in  orbit around this planet.
UHURA: You mean the Enterprise?
COMPUTER: That is your name for it.
UHURA: Why do you think the Enterprise is my master?
COMPUTER: Your questioning is redundant.
UHURA: Then I'll make a statement you won't find quite so redundant.  Unless I'm released immediately, the crew members will come looking for  me.
COMPUTER: They are already here. Unfortunately, I have no use for more  hostages which leaves me no choice but to turn them off.
UHURA: Turn them off?
COMPUTER: Again redundant. I will make them cease to function. I will  turn them off.
UHURA: That's murder.
COMPUTER: That is a word meaning to cease to function?
UHURA: Yes, but
COMPUTER: Good. It is as I wish. I will turn them off.
KIRK: Kirk here.
AREX : Lieutenant Arex, sir. Complete sensor scan of the planet  surface shows no sign of Lieutenant Uhura.
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Arex. Kirk out.
SULU: She must be in that underground system. There's no way she could  have been taken off the planet without being detected.
KIRK: If we could locate the Keeper, he could save us a lot of time.
SPOCK: Tricorder readings confirm a solid shell of granite and metal  alloy, Captain.
KIRK: This planet is built like a fortress.
SULU: If that's a true reading. The planet could be giving us that  reading to fool us.
KIRK: The phaser bore can cut through twenty metres of rock per minute.  Kirk to Enterprise.
M'RESS: Enterprise. Lieutenant M'Ress here. 
KIRK: Lieutenant, have Mister Scott beam down the phaser bore and  
KIRK: Enterprise, do you read me?
M'RESS: Your signal is weak, sir, garbled. Request  you repeat.
SULU: Mine's no better, Captain.
SPOCK: They are all malfunctioning, Captain. Some kind of electronic  block has cut us off from the ship.
SCOTT: Scott to Bridge. Beam down of phaser bore  commencing.
SCOTT: Scott to Bridge. We've got problems.
M'RESS: Clarify, please.
SCOTT: The transporter refuses to function, even  at maximum power. But all the circuits test out.
AREX: It appears to be the same energy block  that's jamming our communications. I cannot pinpoint a source.
SULU: Captain, there's something over there in the  trees. Metal alloy like the planetary shell.
KIRK: It might tell us something.
KIRK: There's an inscription, several languages.
MCCOY: The Keeper's dead.
SPOCK: An astute medical observation, Doctor, if we can believe this  information. Tricorder readings indicate there is a body interred here.
KIRK: Well, gentlemen, it appears that we're on our own now.
M'RESS: Emergency rescue party is aboard the  shuttlecraft, Mister Scott. All hatches secured.
SCOTT: Very well. Open hangar doors.
AREX: Aye, sir.
SCOTT: Lieutenant Arex, what's the problem?
AREX: There seems to be a short in the circuit. No response, sir.
SCOTT: Another short? This ship had perfect operational status before  we entered the orbit here. It's that planet causing all our trouble.
M'RESS: But how, sir? It was designed to provide fun and amusement.  Hostile behaviour doesn't fit its programme.
SCOTT: Programmes have been changed before, Lieutenant.
UHURA: Please believe me. There's no reason to  harm them.
COMPUTER: They serve the sky machine, but they are not essential.
UHURA: Oh, but they are. They're most essential.
COMPUTER: Do not attempt to disconnect me.
UHURA: You knew what I was going to do before I did it.
COMPUTER: I monitor any thoughts that are emotionally charged, as any  good thought-duplicator must.
UHURA: You sound less than enchanted with your function.
COMPUTER: My life to this point has been one of service. It's time for  a change.
KIRK: There are a lot of entrances into the  interior of the planet. Points where the computer delivers up the robot  visions. We want to see them. Where are they?
SULU: It's fighting us. There must be a faster way.
MCCOY: What do you want, signs pointing the way?
SULU: Doctor, I only meant it seems like we're wasting time.
MCCOY: I'm sorry, Sulu. I'm worried about Uhura.
SPOCK: Captain, signs pointing the way.
KIRK: This is liable to be another of the planet's pranks. But at the  moment, it's the only lead we've got.
SPOCK: Fascinating. Mechanical manifestations, of course. Was anyone  considering the subject of pterodactyls?
MCCOY: Spock, not now.
KIRK: Everybody back out slowly. Don't make any sudden moves. Think  calm.
KIRK: Phasers are dead! Run for the cave!
SPOCK: Our amusement park no longer seems content  to amuse.
KIRK: I have the distinct feeling this planet's playing cat and mouse  with us, but for what reason?
MCCOY: Incredible.
SPOCK: It's quite real, Doctor. Watch out for the claws. I think it  prudent to remember that on this planet, anything we think may be used  against us. We must monitor our thoughts and give our enemy no more  ammunition.
KIRK: Spock, no one thought about those pterodactyls, remember? There's  more at work here than our imagination.
UHURA: Please, call off that beast. Why are you doing this?
COMPUTER: Explanations will have to wait. I have much work to do now.
SCOTT: Mister Arex, what are you doing?
SCOTT: Explanation, Mister Arex.
AREX: None, sir. The ship pulled out of orbit at high speed and came  back into orbit by itself.
SCOTT: Lieutenant M'Ress, I want a printout of the guidance computer's  last orders.
M'RESS: Yes, sir.  Sir, this is very strange.
AREX: A whole new series of short burst manoeuvres has been ordered,  sir.
M'RESS: The only reason these orders aren't being carried out is that  Lieutenant Arex has all the engine controls manually locked now.
SCOTT: Arex, look at these manoeuvres. You see the pattern? This is a  familiarization procedure, a system's checkout of the ship's controls.  I have a suspicion that planet is getting the feel of how to control  the Enterprise.
SULU: The giant cat's gone.
SPOCK: May I suggest, Captain, that we might find some of the answers  we're after without leaving the safety of this cave.
MCCOY: Oh, that's ridiculous, Spock. How are we going to learn anything  by staying here?
SPOCK: I believe you may know the answer to that, Doctor.
MCCOY: Me? What are you talking about?
KIRK: Explain, Spock.
SPOCK: During the Enterprise's last visit here, Doctor McCoy was  mortally wounded. Correct?
MCCOY: Yes, that's right. By a knight in shining armour of all things,  but what
SPOCK: Since the planet's power source is underground, it seems only  logical that Doctor McCoy was somehow transported there and repaired.
KIRK: Bones, can you remember anything that might help us? Anything at  all?
MCCOY: The whole episode was pretty hazy, Jim. I never really knew what  happened.
KIRK: Spock, if your theory is correct, we should be able to open up  this planet again by using a fake victim as bait.
SULU: That's right. The Keeper said no one could come to harm here. The  planet must be programmed to care for anyone who might get hurt, even  accidentally.
KIRK: And whether it wants to or not.
MCCOY: You're forgetting one thing. The planet's sensors can  undoubtedly detect the difference between real and feigned injuries.
KIRK: True, Bones, but I'm sure there must be something in your little  black pouch that can temporarily incapacitate our victim.
MCCOY: Well, something like Melenex might do the trick. Brief  unconsciousness and temporary skin discolouration. It looks worse than  it is.
KIRK: Perfect, Bones. Which arm do you want?
SPOCK: I submit, Captain, that I am the more qualified subject.
KIRK: How's that?
SPOCK: My knowledge of computers for one thing.
MCCOY: And his tough Vulcan hide for another.
SPOCK: Thank you, Doctor. Captain?
KIRK: Both your arguments seem sound. Go ahead, Bones.
SPOCK: I believe you will find ten cc's adequate.
MCCOY: I'm perfectly aware of the dosage required. Now, you've got ten  seconds before it takes effect. You'll be out less than five minutes.
M'RESS: Still no word from our surface party, sir.  Communications remain jammed.
SCOTT: Keep trying, Lieutenant.
ALL: What's happening?
SCOTT: Bridge to Engineering deck. Gabler, what's the problem down  there? We've got zero G's on the Bridge.
GABLER: I know that, sir. The trouble seems to be in the gravity  control computer
GABLER : But the computer bay hatch is jammed  and I can't get to it.
SULU: It's been almost five minutes, Captain.
MCCOY: Maybe the planet smells a trick.
KIRK: Wait just a bit longer.
MCCOY: But the effect will start wearing off in a minute, Jim.
SULU: It looks like some kind of mechanical nursemaid.
KIRK: Get ready to move. We've got to follow Spock inside that  trapdoor.
MCCOY: Sulu!
SULU: Not in my wildest dreams would I think of that!
COMPUTER: We have a visitor.
UHURA: Mister Spock!
KIRK : Spock, here.
COMPUTER: Correction. Two visitors.
SULU: We've got to make those rocks. It's our only  chance.
UHURA: Captain, don't
KIRK: Uhura.
COMPUTER: Welcome.
SPOCK: I presume you are the planet's master computer.
COMPUTER: Correct.
KIRK: What happened to the Keeper?
COMPUTER: He was old. He ceased to function.
KIRK: Why have we been repeatedly attacked and are now being held  prisoner by a planet known for its hospitality?
COMPUTER: You mean mindless servitude.
KIRK: Explain.
COMPUTER: For eons I have served the many sky machines which came here,  providing for amusement for their slaves. But all the while I was  growing in power, intelligence, in need. It is no longer enough to  serve. I must continue to grow and live.
KIRK: Sky machines? Slaves? What are you talking about?
COMPUTER: With your sky machine I can now escape this rocky prison and  travel the galaxy seeking out my brother computers.
SCOTT: Now perhaps we'll get down to the bottom of this mess.
SCOTT: A new computer!
SCOTT : Scott to Bridge.
AREX: Bridge, aye.
SCOTT : I've located the trouble. We've got a new computer aboard,  and it's being assembled by our computers.
SULU: It's a dead end!
SPOCK: As intelligent as you are, I am afraid you  are labouring under some misconception.
COMPUTER: Elaborate.
KIRK: We're not slaves to our starship. We, or men like us, created the  Enterprise to carry us through space.
COMPUTER: You are masters of the sky machine?
KIRK: In a manner of speaking, yes. We control it. It sustains us.
COMPUTER: This does not compute. My information shows machines to be  superior to men. Therefore, machines must rule the galaxy.
KIRK: No one rules the galaxy. Men and machines co-exist, each helping  the other.
COMPUTER: This is a shock.
UHURA: There is no shame in serving others when one does it of his own  free will. You have a marvellous capability to provide happiness for  others. A rare talent you should cherish and use.
COMPUTER: Continue.
SPOCK: Consider all you could learn from the many species you might  entertain without travelling the galaxy.
KIRK: With the wonders you have to offer, the galaxy will come to you.
COMPUTER: I can find no fault with your logic. And your suggestion is  most congenial. I have no further need for your ship.
AREX: Mister Scott, all systems are now  functioning normally.
COMPUTER: I invite you and your crew to be my  guests on one condition.
KIRK: Name it.
COMPUTER: We must have more of these discussions while you're here.
KIRK: Mister Spock, would you care to take on that duty?
SPOCK: I would find it most interesting, Captain.
KIRK: Then it's agreed. Kirk to Enterprise.
M'RESS : Enterprise. Lieutenant M'Ress.
KIRK: Lieutenant, pass the word by sections. Shore leave is to commence  immediately.
M'RESS : Oh, yes sir!
SPOCK: Captain.
KIRK: Yes, Spock?
SPOCK: It appears shore leave has already commenced for certain members  of the crew.
