KIRK: Maintain the Enterprise in this position,  Sulu. If Spock and I survive, we'll return here. If not, Mister Scott,  you have your orders. Energise.
VEDALA:  Welcome, Captain James Kirk and Commander Spock. I  will introduce you. First, Tchar.  Hereditary prince of the  Skorr, master of the eerie. Sord. 
EM3GREEN:  I was sentenced to this mad expedition. My people  are cautious, what you would call cowards.
VEDALA: As an expert lockpick and thief, you are welcome. Em3green.  Lara  is a hunter. She has a flawless directional sense, a  necessary skill where you are going. Mister Spock was chosen for his  analytical mind and scientific expertise. Captain Kirk for his  leadership and adaptability. Tchar will explain your mission.
TCHAR: Two centuries past, my people, the Skorr, were great warriors.  We had advanced military technology and we could breed vast armies  rapidly. But today we are a civilised people because of Alar. 
KIRK: A religious leader, was he not?
TCHAR: Our salvation and our teacher. He brought us peace. He made us  great. He died, and we made him immortal.
VEDALA: Alar's brain patterns were recorded before his death, in a  piece of indurite sculpture.
TCHAR: Our Soul, the Soul of the Skorr, was stolen.
VEDALA: The theft triggered a racial fury in the Skorr. They are  preparing for war.
KIRK: Against whom?
TCHAR: The known galaxy.
SPOCK: It is a very real threat. In two standard years, the existing  Skorr could breed an army of two hundred billion warriors.
TCHAR: My government fears this, so the theft of the Soul of Alar has  been kept secret. But we must recover it before my people discover it  gone and go mad, launch a jihad, a holy war on the galaxy.
KIRK: Who took the Soul?
VEDALA: Unknown. The motive, as Tchar has said, to provoke a holy war.
SPOCK: Is there any clue to its location?
VEDALA: A mad planet, Geologically unstable. Constant earthquakes,  gravitic shifts, tidal waves. The temperature varies from twenty Kelvin  to two hundred and four above. Somewhere on that planet, the Soul of  Alar is hidden. Three expeditions have tried to recover it. Three  expeditions have been lost. You are the next, if you agree.
KIRK: The Vedala are a powerful race. Why haven't your people retrieved  the Soul?
VEDALA: My people could not survive on that planet. You have a chance.
KIRK: We agree.
VEDALA: Then it is done.
TCHAR: I cannot feel the Soul. We are nowhere near it.
SPOCK: That is to be expected. The surface of this planet shifts  constantly. Even the Vedala are not certain where the Soul is.
KIRK: It has directional equipment that keys on indurite.
SORD: I like this place, it's got variety.
EM3GREEN: I can handle the machine.
SPOCK: Our direction is indicated.
EM3GREEN: It's phasing, unfocusing.
KIRK: Why did the Vedala call this the Mad planet?
LARA: Means nothing. I can tell the way. That way.
TCHAR: Are you certain, human?
LARA: For sure, birdman. I can't get lost. I can't be fooled about  directions. That's why I'm here.
SPOCK: The Vedala would not have chosen Lara if her abilities were less  than perfect.
KIRK: Agreed, but we're forced to travel on the ground. I want an  overview.
TCHAR: I will scout overhead.
SPOCK: The Vedala will have been efficient in equipping us. I will  acquaint myself with our supplies.
LARA: Vulcans. Never liked them much myself. Cold-blooded critters, all  of them.
KIRK: I wouldn't say that. Mister Spock is a unique personality.
LARA: But not human like you and me. Maybe you got different customs.  My world there's a lot of females, not so many men. Come we find a man  attractive, we say so. I'm saying so. How do you find me?
KIRK: Fascinating. But we're not here on a pleasure trip, Lara.
LARA: All the more reason to take what pleasure there might be in it.
SPOCK: I have checked the supplies, Captain. As expected, they are  adequate and there are weapons.
KIRK: Against what? There's no life on this planet.
SPOCK: But there is, Captain. Ourselves. And there may be other things  guarding the Soul of Alar.
LARA: Real weather.
KIRK: And a half.
EM3GREEN: We'll all die here.
SPOCK: A statistical probability.
LARA: You ever quote anything besides statistics, Vulcan?
SPOCK: Yes. But philosophy and poetry are not appropriate here.
TCHAR: I can see something.  I can sense it, the Soul  of Alar is there.
LARA: Something's coming.
SPOCK: A lava flow. Volcanic action is to be expected.
LARA: Never mind that. You got to get us out of here.
KIRK: We might be able to divert the lava flow with a barricade. Tchar,  get us a visual estimate!
SPOCK: Such a diversion would be of short duration, Captain. And I must  point out, the vehicle lacks sufficient speed to escape.
KIRK: Not if we used all of the power pack's energy for one high speed  run.
SPOCK: It is possible, but the rewiring of the power leads is complex  and time-consuming.
EM3GREEN: I could do it, if you can diagram the schematics, sir.
SPOCK: Yes, quickly then. Terminal M3 red, lead to diode shunt A37.  Cross connect to A14.
TCHAR: Kirk. There is a ravine sixty metres to your left. If it can be  blocked, the lava will flow past those rocks to one side.
KIRK: Got it. Sord.
SORD: I heard him.
SPOCK: Carefully, Em. One missed connection could destroy us.
EM3GREEN: I know. I'm trying to be careful.
LARA: I figure we've bought ourselves a little time. Few minutes.
SPOCK: It's re-rigged. Hurry.
SORD: Come on, insect, move it.
LARA: Twenty one degrees east. Fifty metres to get out of the flow  path.
TCHAR: Hurry.
KIRK: Go.
SPOCK: Leave, all of you.
KIRK: Not without you.
SPOCK: Captain, you must get the others away.
KIRK: We're all getting away.
LARA: Close.
SPOCK: Far too close, Captain. I appreciate your action on my behalf,  but your first duty is to the group and the mission.
KIRK: Quite right, Spock. And that responsibility includes not losing  the best science officer in Starfleet.
SORD: You two going to argue honours, or are we going to get on with  it?
LARA: Oh! And I was just going to ask, what next?
KIRK: We move on.
EM3GREEN: The power pack is burned out.
KIRK: We'll have to carry the equipment.
KIRK: Anything?
TCHAR: Wait. Yes, yes!
EM3GREEN: I can't go any farther. I'm not even afraid anymore. Just  very tired.
LARA: Come on, Em, a bit more.
EM3GREEN: No. I'm finished.
KIRK: Sorry, Em. We'll be needing you. Sord.
EM3GREEN: Let me go.
SORD: Hang on. 
TCHAR: I'll go ahead.
KIRK: What is it?
SORD: Not sure. Thought I saw something move in the brush.
SPOCK: There is no life on this planet.
SORD: Guess you're right. This planet just gets on your nerves.
TCHAR: I can sense the Soul. I will fly ahead, examine the building,  and meet you on the way.
KIRK: Tchar, be careful. We need you, too.
KIRK: We're tired, sore, hurt and angry, but we're also just about  there. I'll scout ahead. Everybody else stay together, keep moving.
LARA: I'll go with you. Remember, scouting's my job. By rights, I  should be doing it alone.
SPOCK: Sord, what did you think you saw back there?
SORD: Don't know, Vulcan. A shape, couldn't really make it out.  Probably seeing things, like Kirk figures.
SPOCK: There should be no life on this planet.
EM3GREEN: You keep saying that.
SPOCK: Yes. The Vedala would have informed us if there were any live  beings here we should know of.
SORD: Maybe the Vedala didn't know about it.
SPOCK: That is an impossibility.
SORD: Think so? I'm not so sure.
KIRK: That's it. End of a long, hard journey.
LARA: We still have to go back, James. I tell you true, I find you an  attractive man. If we were together, the trip would be easier. And if  anything happened, why, we'd have some green memories.
KIRK: I already have a lot of green memories.
LARA: Oh.
KIRK: Maybe some other time, Lara. We still have our work cut out for  us here.
SPOCK: Is this not the shape of your people's primitive temples?
TCHAR: Yes. The entrance should be . Can you open it?
EM3GREEN: There is no lock I can't pick.
KIRK: What is it?
EM3GREEN: I'm opening the locks.
LARA: Wonderful.
EM3GREEN: No. They're on a timed trigger. If I don't get all the locks  open quickly enough, it explodes.
SORD: Keep working. I'll cover you.
KIRK: They're mechanical.
SPOCK: The Vedala were right. There are no living creatures here, only  the mechanised sentinels.
SORD: Hurry, small one.
KIRK: We'll hit Tchar.
LARA: What happened to Tchar?
KIRK: There's no way to tell from here. The mechanical exploded. We  can't reach the roof from the outside. We'll have to try to get to him  from the interior.
EM3GREEN: Done.
KIRK: We could rest awhile. Lara?
LARA: No. We've come this far.
SORD: Let's finish it. Or give this deadfall a chance to finish us.
SPOCK: I too would prefer to press on, Captain. The mechanicals on  guard may be what Sord saw tracking us earlier. Or there may be others.  In either case, it would be more advantageous to avoid another  encounter.
SORD: Pretty. How do we reach it?
SPOCK: The walls are not climbable.
KIRK: Not without special equipment, which we don't have. Either we  find a way to reach it from here, or we fail.
EM3GREEN: No lock on the inside. We are prisoners.
KIRK: That's right.
LARA: You're not exactly surprised.
KIRK: Three previous expeditions tried and were lost. The planet is a  natural trap, but that's not enough.
SPOCK: You suggest sabotage, Captain?
KIRK: Yes, from inside each expedition. Remember Spock, you were the  one who said there are no life forms here except ourselves.
EM3GREEN: One of us?
KIRK: It's likely.
SPOCK: Approximately eighty two point five percent in favour of the  possibility.
KIRK: But it doesn't matter if we reach the Soul. Apparently the others  didn't get this far.
SORD: I'm not built for that sort of thing. I'll wait for you down  here.
SPOCK: The planet is geologically unstable. This structure is  inherently flexible, enabling it to withstand earthquakes.
EM3GREEN: It can, but what about us?
KIRK: Look.
EM3GREEN: We can almost reach it.
LARA: Maybe I can get a line on it.
SPOCK: It is locked in a force field. Your rope would merely bounce off  it.
KIRK: Spock, will our combined phasers disrupt the field?
SPOCK: I cannot define the field's energy base, Captain, but
KIRK: The last piece of sabotage. I know who you are. A thousand feet  up, no method of reaching the Soul, except by air, by flight. Tchar.
LARA: Tchar. In the name of the Seven Gods, why?
KIRK: You stole this. You'll start a bloody crusade across the galaxy.  Tell us why, Tchar.
TCHAR: The Skorr were a warrior race. Now what are we? Slaves to the  illusion of peace. Cowards, soft in our comfort. This sick dream has  stolen our souls. I am Tchar, hereditary prince of the Skorr, leader of  battles. I will lead my people into glory, to avenge our history.
SPOCK: Most of them will be killed. The warrior races of the Federation  will rise up to battle the Skorr.
TCHAR: Yes. A noble death to win a great dream. We will live no longer  like worms crawling in the dirt. We will conquer. You will die. But you  have my respect. You fought well. You die in grace.
EM3GREEN: He's turned on a gravity neutraliser in the building.
TCHAR: Now you can fly and fight as a Skorr.
SORD: No offence, little ones, but let me tackle him.
KIRK: Not in free fall.
EM3GREEN: Use your phaser on him.
KIRK: Too risky. He controls the fortress phaser bank, and they're set  on kill. No, it has to be on his terms. Spock, how long since you've  worked out in null-gravity combat exercises?
SPOCK: Last week with you, Captain.
KIRK: Let's go.
KIRK: Call for retrieval, now.
TCHAR: Let me die.
KIRK: You're going back with us.
VEDALA: We give you thanks. The Soul of Alar is returned to his people.
KIRK: What about Tchar? How are you going to punish him?
VEDALA: He will be healed of his madness. He is proud, brave. That he  will remain, but he will also be sane and whole again.   We cannot reward you. For the good of the Skorr, this must be forever  secret. You have only our thanks.
SORD: Got nowhere to keep a medal, anyway. But there'll be questions.
VEDALA: No. You will return and you will see, there will be no  questions, no medals, only our thanks. And in time, even the memory  will be gone from you.
LARA: Goodbye, James Kirk. Too bad.
SULU: Captain. Mister Spock, what happened?
KIRK: What do you mean?
SULU: You transported over and came right back. Did they call it off?
SPOCK: How long were we gone?
SULU: Long? About two minutes, I guess. I don't understand.
KIRK: The Vedala changed their minds. The danger is past. Back to your  stations. We have a lot of other places to go.
