KIRK: This is the largest land mass on the planet, isn't it, Spock?
SPOCK: Yes, Captain. The others are mere outcroppings. They suggest the  peaks of submerged mountains.
MCCOY: I suggest that we get these seawater and algae specimens.  They're the least of the lot.
SPOCK: For once I agree with you, Doctor. The more informative  specimens will come from the sea bottom.
KIRK: Lieutenant Clayton, open the hatch and let our two scientists  here get on with their business.
CLAYTON: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: What's that?
KIRK: Phasers on stun, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Firing, Captain.
MCCOY: What the devil was that thing?
SPOCK: Apparently a life form which previous surveys have not recorded.
KIRK: Let's get a closer look at it before the phaser stun wears off.  Submerge, Lieutenant.
CLAYTON: Aye, sir.
MCCOY: Dual respiratory system. Lungs and gills.
SPOCK: Its skeleton is similar to that of a Denebian whale, Captain.
KIRK: It's regaining consciousness. Surface, Mister Clayton.
CLAYTON: Aye, sir.
KIRK: Spock, prepare to fire phasers.
SPOCK: Phasers do not respond, Captain. We must have sustained damage  to the power pack when the creature struck us.
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Emergency.
SCOTT : Enterprise. What is it, sir.
KIRK: We're under attack. Beam us aboard, Scotty.
SCOTT : We've lost contact, Captain.
SCOTT: Repeat, we've lost contact. Come in,  Captain. Come in.
MCCOY: There's nothing. There's just nothing.
CLAYTON: I see some rocks. They're just above sea level, about two  miles away. There's something on them.
MCCOY: Maybe they're still alive.
MCCOY: Their bodies are functioning. Metabolism, heart. Everything but  the lungs.
KIRK: Can't breathe. Suffocating. Help. Can't breathe.
SCOTT: What happened to them, Doctor? What is it?
MCCOY: Something's changed their whole lung structure. They can't live  in the air anymore.
MCCOY: We're stumped, Jim. The hormone seems to be the major factor in  your mutation, but we just can't identify it.
KIRK: Are you sure the mutation wasn't somehow accomplished naturally?
MCCOY: It was infused into your bodies at key structural points. It had  to be done by injection.
KIRK: But can't you duplicate it, Bones? Your medical computers have  information on every procedure in the Federation's hospitals.
MCCOY: It's highly sophisticated and completely unknown to us.
SPOCK: That implies there are intelligent life forms on Argo.
MCCOY: The sensors don't indicate any life forms down there, aside from  fish.
SPOCK: They did fail to indicate the large marine creature that  attacked us. Perhaps the readings are incomplete, blocked by underwater  pressure forces. Oceans are less turbulent at greater depth. Such  conditions would be more suitable to intelligent forms.
MCCOY: Well, we can't do much underwater exploration without the  aqua-shuttle. Our equipment is too limited.
KIRK: We aren't limited. We can go wherever we want in that ocean.
MCCOY: It's too risky, Jim. Argo's almost totally unexplored. You'd be  out of contact range, unarmed.
KIRK: I have to, Bones. Look at this place. A tank. I can't command a  ship from inside an aquarium. I can't live in here.
MCCOY: I know what you're saying, Jim, but if you go down on that  planet and you die there
KIRK: Right now we have only two choices. Live in an aquarium somewhere  for the rest of our lives or stay on Argo. I won't accept either one of  them.
MCCOY: What about you, Spock? What does your logic tell you?
SPOCK: The Captain states the case emotionally, of course, but  correctly. I would be of little value to this ship if I am confined to  a tank in Sickbay. I must accompany the Captain.
KIRK: An intelligence that can produce this kind of mutation can change  us back. We've got to find it, Bones. It must be there.
KIRK: We'll make contact as soon as possible,  Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Aye, sir.
MALE: Go away, air breathers. You're not wanted here.
KIRK: We won't harm you. We're friends.
FEMALE: Leave us. It is enough our young saved your lives once. If you  go on, nothing will save you again.
KIRK: Wait. Listen.
MALE: Go away.
KIRK: I don't understand. They said they'd saved us once.
SPOCK: I believe the phrase was, 'our young saved your lives once.'
KIRK: Yes, and they didn't seem to approve. The answer appears to be in  that direction, Spock.
SPOCK: I would say so, Captain. The instinctive reaction of all  frightened creatures is to retreat to a place of safety.
SPOCK: Fascinating. And beautiful.
KIRK: An undersea civilisation capable of fantastic architecture.  Medical triumphs unheard of in our galaxy. Why should they be afraid of  us, Spock?
SPOCK: It is quite possible, Captain, that they find us grotesque and  ugly. And many people fear beings different from themselves.
KIRK: Well, speculation isn't much help. We have to get in there.
SPOCK: Perhaps there is a way open on the far side. There is much less  activity there.
KIRK: That building in the centre. It seems to be important.
DOMAR: You stand before the Ruling Tribunal of the Aquans. I am Domar,  the High Tribune.
KIRK: I'm Captain Kirk of the starship Enterprise. This is my first  officer, Mister Spock.
DOMAR: You are air-breather enemies from the surface. We have expected  spies for a long time.
SPOCK: We came here in peace, Tribune.
CADMAR: The ancient records warn that air-breathers never come in  peace.
RILA: They came without weapons.
MALE: Can we do nothing without consulting the ancient records?
CADMAR: Why do the Junior Tribunes wish always to change the records?
DOMAR: Let the mesh be removed, but stand ready.
MALE: The surgo-op was excellent. They have mutated perfectly.
KIRK: Your scientists induced these mutations?
DOMAR: We do not wish to kill, even air-breathers. Your memory was  eradicated so you could not return here.
CADMAR: It would seem their ancient records are as well preserved as  ours. They found us again to come among us as spies.
RILA: You do not give them a chance to defend themselves, Cadmar.
DOMAR: Rila is correct. You may speak.
KIRK: We are visitors to your planet. We come from another world.
RILA: You do not live on the surface places?
SPOCK: Not on this world.
CADMAR: Enough! Clearly, this is a lie. The air-breathers have come  again to destroy us.
SPOCK: You are mistaken, sir. Our only purpose here is to find the  means of reversing our mutations.
DOMAR: That is impossible. Only Aquan mutation is designated by the  surgo-records.
MCCOY : Enterprise to Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Scott here. What is it, Doctor?
MCCOY: Sensors just gave us an update reading, Scotty. There's a  seaquake due in that area, a bad one. Complete topography changes.
SCOTT: How soon?
MCCOY: Within four hours. When are Jim and Spock  due to make contact?
SCOTT : About the same time.
MCCOY: Can you contact them sooner?
SCOTT : We can try like blue blazes. Scott out.
SCOTT: Their directional marker indicates they  descended toward that fern bed.
FEMALE: Air-breathers. We must inform the Tribunes.
KIRK: The name of our starship is on the  aqua-shuttle. If you want proof, examine the wreckage.
RILA: Yes. Let us examine the wreckage before we make judgement.
FEMALE: We have news, High Tribune.
DOMAR: Speak it.
FEMALE: Three air-breathers have invaded the sea foliage. We saw them  as we gathered edibles.
DOMAR: Do you still believe these creatures came in peace?
RILA: We do not know what to believe.
DOMAR: Take these spies to the surface boulders and leave them there.  It is justice enough for our enemies.
RILA: Conserve your strength. I will free you. The mesh is too strong.
KIRK: Go to the big island. Bring assistance party.
CLAYTON: Did you see anything?
SCOTT: Not a sign of them. Wait a minute. Who are
RILA: Follow me. Your friends need help.
RILA: There.
SCOTT: Quick, lads.
SCOTT: Stand by in the scouter-gig, Lieutenant.
KIRK: Rila, this is my engineering officer, Mister Scott. Tribune Rila  is an Aquan. Their city is a short distance away.
SCOTT: We're obliged for your help. Captain, we've been trying to  contact you for two hours. There's a sea bottom quake due. It'll  destroy this whole area.
RILA: There are legends of such a happening. It destroyed the ancient  knowledge and caused the great surface places to sink into the sea.
SPOCK: That suggests your race evolved from its ancient enemies.
RILA: We did not evolve, Mister Spock. When the surface places began to  sink, many air-breathers were mutated through surgo-op, just as you  were. As the centuries passed, the mutations became hereditary.
KIRK: Strange that such a highly developed race would be violent.
SPOCK: Apparently they were exposed to a frightening geological  disaster. Such hardship induces savagery and violence.
RILA: They hunted and killed us. We feared they would contaminate us  with their violence. That is also why it is forbidden to mutate back to  surface forms.
KIRK: Then reverse mutation is possible.
RILA: There are legends of sealed places in the sunken ruins where many  knowledge records of it are kept.
SCOTT: There's not much time, Captain. The quake's due in less than two  hours.
KIRK: How far are the ruins, Rila?
RILA: Only a short distance.
KIRK: Those old records may hold the key to reversing our mutations.  We've got to find them before it's too late.
RILA: I cannot take you to the ruins. It is against ordainments.
KIRK: It's important, Rila. Not just for us. The population of another  planet is threatened by surface changes, too. Argo's ancient knowledge  can help save them.
RILA: Yes. I will take you as far as the reef barrier.
RILA: The ruins lie that way. Now, take care. The  tides are strong.
SPOCK: Fascinating. Obviously, an entire portion  of the continental shelf sank within a few minutes. This may be the  sealed place Rila mentioned. I believe this is an entrance panel,  Captain.
KIRK: There's another chamber.
SPOCK: This resembles ancient medical symbols, Captain. The torso  indicates mutation.
KIRK: That's it, Spock. The key to the survival of the race.
MCCOY: If the universal translator is right, the substance in your  bloodstream is similar to the ambergris of Earth whales. Reverse  mutation is induced by infusion of an antitoxin, concentrated doses of  it.
KIRK: What's the composition of the antitoxin, Bones?
MCCOY: It's made from the venom of the Argo sur-snake.
KIRK: To capture a sur-snake, we need your help.  Our people can't descend to that depth.
NEPHRO: Domar has warned that if we break more ordainments, we will be  exiled to the open seas.
SPOCK: We cannot reverse our mutations without the serum, nor can the  Aquans benefit from the knowledge of their ancestors.
NEPHRO: But the ordainments state clearly that capturing sur-snakes is  forbidden.
MALE: Ordainments are useless in times of turbulence. Only knowledge  will help us.
RILA: Nephro, we must break the ordainments.
RILA: Quickly, Captain.
RILA: Quickly, we must leave.
KIRK: We need more venom.
RILA: No, no, there is no time.
MCCOY: We have prepared an antitoxin from the venom of the sur-snake,  but a part of the old records is missing, so the exact dosage is  unknown. Experiments on fish show that if the antitoxin is too strong,  it causes over-mutation, which cannot be reversed by any means. We're  running out of venom, so conclusive experiments are impossible. I  decreased the strength by three quarters, Jim, but we can't be sure  it's right.
KIRK: How many infusions, Bones?
MCCOY: Two small, one large.
KIRK: Well, let's get started.
MCCOY: His pulse is fading.  Pulse and heart normal.  Something's happening to his metabolism. It's at least ten times normal  speed.  Metabolism normal.  Heartbeat normal. The lungs are beginning to revert. This is the last  dose, the largest infusion.  The antitoxin was too  strong.  He's starting to breathe. Quick, get him  out of the tank!
MCCOY: How do you feel, Jim?
KIRK: A little dizzy. Otherwise normal.
MCCOY: Well, better get into some dry clothes. I wouldn't want you to  catch cold. Your turn, Spock.
KIRK: We'll bombard the unpopulated pressure areas with phaser beams  and change the epicentre of the quake so it won't endanger your people  or your city.
DOMAR: I did not believe such knowledge was possible.
SCOTT: Major tremors will start in three minutes, Captain.
DOMAR: It is incredible. All of it.
KIRK: Confirm co-ordinates, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Confirmed, sir.
KIRK: Fire phasers as directed, gentlemen.
AREX: Aye, aye, sir.
SPOCK: Sensors indicate the epicentre of the quake was in the north  polar seas, Captain, a totally uninhabited area.
DOMAR: Then our people are safe.
KIRK: When can we beam down, Spock?
SPOCK: The seabed should stabilize within a few hours.
SPOCK: Argo appears to have a new city, Captain,  or rather, one reborn.
RILA: Our people survived the seaquakes with little damage, thanks to  your help.
DOMAR: We owe you and your friends much gratitude, Captain Kirk. We  will try to repay by making the ancient records available for your  studies.
SPOCK: Our experience here has shown us the means of diverting quakes.  That will mean much to the endangered Federation planet.
RILA: The light is warm and the air is soft. I shall be glad when the  surface places can be inhabited.
DOMAR: The young Aquans have decided to rebuild the great shelters of  the air-breathers.
KIRK: Only the young Aquans?
DOMAR: Senior Aquans cannot adjust to the thought of becoming  air-breathers. We will remain at the Aqua City.
KIRK: Don't lose contact with each other like your ancestors.
DOMAR: We will pass ordainments to forbid it.
RILA: And we, this time, will not ignore them.
