PARIS:  Ow! Ow! What do you think you're doing, Doc?
EMH: An impromptu auditory exam.
PARIS: Did I pass?
EMH: With flying colours, which leads me to believe you did hear me  when I requested you meet me this morning.
PARIS: You're right. I forgot.
EMH: I see. I realise your Sickbay training is purely voluntary, but  you haven't spent any time there in several weeks. And when I try to  find you, you're always in the holodeck.
PARIS: Correct me if I'm wrong, Doc, but we haven't been treating  anything more serious than an ingrown toenail.
EMH: That's beside the point. If an emergency were to happen you must  be prepared. You're too far behind in your medical texts to be wasting your  time in the holodeck.
PARIS: If it's any consolation, I have spent most of the morning  immersed in a complicated surgical procedure.
EMH: Really.
PARIS: A classic case of atrophied shocks. They needed to be extracted  to prevent chrome abrasion. It was touch and go for a while, but the  prognosis is excellent.
EMH: You'll be ready for neurosurgery in no time.
PARIS: Take a look at this, Doc. This is a fully stock 1969 Chevy  Camaro, one of the earliest muscle cars ever made.
PARIS: Imagine, Northern  California, late twentieth century. You're cruising up Highway One, the  woofers are pounding, the wind is whipping through your hair.
EMH: Medieval safety constraints, internal combustion system producing  lethal levels of carbon monoxide. Hmm. I stand corrected. This may be just  what you need to get you back to Sickbay.
PARIS: I guess I should have known this wouldn't interest you. It's too  much fun.
EMH: This isn't about fun, Mister Paris. Serving in Sickbay is a  privilege. I'd expect you to realise that.
PARIS: Oh, I do. I'll be there. Soon.
JANEWAY : Lieutenant Paris, report to the bridge immediately.
PARIS: I'm on my way.
PARIS:  Somebody call for a driver?
JANEWAY: Take your station, Tom. Anything on scans, Harry?
KIM: I'm picking up another spatial disturbance two thousand kilometres  away.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM: I have no idea. It looks like space is folding in on itself.
JANEWAY: Shields to full.
KIM: It's an alien vessel, one occupant aboard.
PARIS: Captain, it looks like that ship is being powered by a coaxial  warp drive.
CHAKOTAY: Coaxial what?
PARIS: It's a hypothetical propulsion system. Starfleet engineers have  been dreaming about it for years. In theory, it can literally fold the  fabric of space allowing a ship to travel instantaneously across huge  distances.
TUVOK: The alien warp drive is overloading.
PARIS: In theory, a coaxial drive explosion could collapse space within  a radius of a billion kilometres. In theory.
JANEWAY: Let's keep theory from becoming reality. Red alert!
CHAKOTAY: Scan the vessel. Can we beam the pilot out?
KIM: Too much interference.
PARIS: That ship's about had it, Captain. The coaxial core is breaching.
TUVOK: We should vacant this area of space at once.
PARIS: We can't just leave him like this.
JANEWAY: Try one more hail.
KIM: Nothing. Maybe he's ignoring us.
PARIS: Or maybe he's unconscious. We've got to do something.
JANEWAY: Suggestions?
PARIS: A symmetric warp field. That should contain any instabilities in  his space-folding core.
CHAKOTAY: How can you be sure?
PARIS: Advanced subspace geometry. It's the one course at the academy  where I actually paid attention. We'll tractor him in to kill his  momentum, generate a warp field around his ship.
TUVOK: His flightpath is erratic. We'd be risking collision.
PARIS: Captain, I can make this work.
JANEWAY: Do it.
PARIS: Passing through the residual folds in space. Steady. Got him!
TUVOK: I've extended our warp field around his vessel. His core is  powering down.
JANEWAY: Nice flying, Tom.
PARIS: My pleasure.
KIM: We're finally receiving a hail.
CHAKOTAY: Open a channel.
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway, of the Federation Starship Voyager. Do you  need medical attention?
STETH : I'm fine, Captain. Unfortunately my ship is not.
JANEWAY: If you need to make repairs, we might be able to help.
STETH : That's very generous.
JANEWAY: We'll beam you aboard in a few minutes. Stand by.
STETH : Thank you.
JANEWAY: Tuvok.
JANEWAY: Energise.
JANEWAY: Welcome.
STETH: Captain, I know you put yourselves in danger to rescue me. I  want to thank you.
JANEWAY: I'm glad we could help.
STETH: I was so eager to test my new engine, I pushed it beyond it's  limits.
JANEWAY: Coaxial warp doesn't seem to be the smoothest way to travel.
STETH: It's a violent procedure, but it allows a ship to travel through  space at incredible speeds.
TUVOK: Considering the dangers, this method of travel hardly seems  logical.
STETH: That's probably true, but if I were worrying about danger I  wouldn't have become a test pilot.
JANEWAY: Where are you from?
STETH: The fourth planet of the Benthan system. That's about twenty  light years from here.
JANEWAY: I'll speak to my engineers about helping you with repairs.  Without your coaxial drive, it's a long way home.
CHAKOTAY: Come in.
PARIS: I'd like to ask you a favour. I need a change of pace. I'd like  to help Steth repair his ship.
CHAKOTAY: This isn't a good time to ask.
PARIS: What do you mean?
CHAKOTAY: I've been reading a report from the Doctor. You didn't show  up today.
PARIS: I was a little busy this morning. Saving someone's life, as I  recall.
CHAKOTAY: Is there something wrong, Tom? Anything bothering you?
PARIS: Nothing is wrong. Since when is not wanting to spend time with  the Doctor a capital offence? You'd have to throw the whole crew in the  brig for that one.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe. I was wondering if there's something on your mind.  You're showing up for your duty shifts, you do what's required, but  your heart doesn't seem to be in it. You seem preoccupied.
PARIS: Like I said, I think I need a change of pace.
CHAKOTAY: You're a different man from the one that came on board four  years ago. You've taken charge of your life, turned yourself around.  I'd hate to see you ruin it.
PARIS: I won't. With your permission, I'll report to Sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Permission denied. Report to Steth's ship instead. Assist in  the repairs. We need our best man on the job.
STETH:  And on my way back, I made the mistake of flying the prototype through  restricted Entaban territory.
PARIS: And?
STETH: And the Entabans weren't too pleased to see me. I limped back to  the engineers on Benthos with phaser holes through their brand new  extanium fuselage. I think they would have been happy to see phaser  holes through me.
PARIS: When I was sixteen, I followed an ancient human custom. I took  my father's shuttle out for a joy ride, and proceeded to fry all the  relays.
STETH: I'm guessing he wasn't happy about getting it back.
PARIS: Actually he didn't. As far as I know, it's still at the bottom  of Lake Tahoe.
STETH: Here it is, the coaxial induction drive. It draws in subatomic  particles and reconfigures their internal geometries.
PARIS: And this is what makes folding space possible?
STETH: At least in spurts. Unfortunately, particle instabilities keep  overloading my engines. But I'm going to make it work. I have to keep in  motion. I don't like the thought of settling down. Too many new ships  to drive. Too many intriguing women.
PARIS: Yeah, I guess so.
STETH: When I get this ship back I'm going to be doing the first test  on a new Mithran class flyer. I'm told it's more advanced than any  warship in the quadrant. Why don't you come with me? We'd have a great  time. You could meet up with Voyager afterwards.
PARIS: I'd love to do that. It sounds very exciting. But I have  responsibilities here. People who count on me. B'Elanna would be  furious. B'Elanna. I have to go.
PARIS:  So, you started without me.
TORRES: I finished without you. You're a little late.
PARIS: Sorry. I was helping Steth repair his ship.
TORRES: How's it going?
PARIS: Pretty slow. We're both stuck on how to prevent the particle  overloads in his propulsion system.
TORRES: Have you tried an isokinetic containment field?
PARIS: Yeah, that's the first thing we tried.
TORRES: How long do you think repairs are going to take?
PARIS: I don't know.
TORRES: I was just hoping that maybe you could help me recalibrate the  plasma manifolds tonight.
PARIS: Ah. I, er, I probably should go help Steth.
TORRES: Tom, is there something wrong?
PARIS: Why are you interrogating me?
TORRES: I didn't think I was.
PARIS: It sounds more like you want me to account for every minute that  I'm not with you.
TORRES: That's ridiculous.
PARIS: Can't I have some time to myself? Can't I do what I want without  having to report every detail of it to you?
TORRES: Tom, you can do whatever you want. I just wanted to know if  there was something wrong. I mean, lately you've been cancelling dates. You hide out for hours in the holodeck.
PARIS: I am not hiding anything. That is ridiculous.
TORRES: Is it? You haven't even told me what holodeck programme this is  that has you so fascinated.
PARIS: The Dancing Girls of Ninipia Prime. It's very entertaining,
TORRES: Very funny.
PARIS: You're overreacting.
TORRES: I am not overreacting. There's obviously something going on  and you're refusing to admit it.
NEELIX: Good evening, Lieutenants. I see you don't have your dinner  yet, Tom. Can I get you something?
PARIS: I'm really not hungry.
TORRES: Excuse me. Are you going to talk about this? Because if you're  not, I don't want to sit here anymore.
PARIS: If you can carry on an adult conversation without all the  histrionics
TORRES: Good night, Tom.
STETH:  Computer, run a DNA stability analysis. How long before my genome  reverts to it's previous form?
COMPUTER: Time to reversion three hours thirteen minutes. Complete  genome recovery is imminent.
PARIS:  So I was lying in bed last night when it hit me. What you need is a  carburettor.
STETH: A carburettor?
PARIS: Yes. It's a device that's hundreds of years old. I can't believe  I didn't think of it yesterday.
STETH: Wait. Hundreds of years old? Surely that couldn't be of any use  to us now.
PARIS: It all goes back to basics. You would be surprised at how often  I find solutions to twenty fourth century problems in twentieth century  technology. Computer, access Paris programme alpha one, Grease Monkey.
STETH: Grease Monkey?
PARIS: Mechanic lingo.
PARIS:  A car's engine can't run on pure fuel, so the carburettor supplies it  with a mixture of vaporised fuel and air.
STETH: And you think we need a device like that to dilute the particle  stream as it enters the coaxial drive.
PARIS: Exactly! And a spare polaric modulator from Voyager's impulse  drive should do the trick.
STETH: Subatomic dilution! It never would have occurred to me. I think  you've solved it.
PARIS: Well, we can run a few simulations on the holodeck before we  actually try it.
STETH: I owe you a lot.
PARIS: You can thank my lucky toolbox. It's gotten me out of hot water  more than once.
STETH: You're lucky to be stationed on a ship like this. Replicators to  feed and clothe you, holotechnology to cater to every whim. Hallways  filled with women.
PARIS: Yeah. It's great.
STETH: You don't sound convinced. Aren't you happy here?
PARIS: Of course I'm happy. I'm very happy. I mean, I pilot one of the  most advanced ships in Starfleet, I have a beautiful girlfriend, I'm  respected. I have everything that I've ever wanted.
STETH: You're lucky, You're part of a family, part of a structure. You  have rules to guide you. You don't have to worry about making a lot of  choices. I usually go to bed at night not knowing what the next day has  in store, what trouble I might get into. You don't have to worry about  those things. You're very settled.
PARIS: I remember those days. I used to be a lot like you. Going  anywhere, doing whatever I wanted, making my own rules.
STETH: Well, then there's hope for me yet, Maybe someday I'll settle  down too. But for now I prefer to stay on the move.
PARIS: Sometimes I wish that's what I was doing.
STETH: Things'll turn around for you. I've always found that change is  inevitable. It comes when you least expect it.
PARIS: Yeah, I suppose.
STETH: Now, are we ready to try this carburettor idea on my ship?
PARIS: Just give me five more minutes to finish up here and I'll be  right with you.
STETH: Five minutes. And Tom? Don't dismiss the suggestion I made, about  coming with me to fly the new ship. It might be fun to escape the  shackles for a while.
PARIS: Hmm.
STETH:  Computer, access all files pertaining to Lieutenant Tom Paris. Download  into memory core alpha.
COMPUTER: Please enter authorisation code.
COMPUTER: Access granted. Commencing  download.
STETH: Hello. I'm Steth, a guest of your captain.
SEVEN: I have been appraised of your presence on Voyager. You are not  authorised to access the ship's computers.
STETH: You must be Seven of Nine.
SEVEN: That is correct.
STETH: Tom mentioned you. He thinks you're extremely intelligent.
SEVEN: Lieutenant Paris' opinion of me is irrelevant to your being in  this room.
STETH: Well, er, Tom felt we needed some files for polaric modulators,  but he was called away before we could access them. I thought I'd find  them myself and help out.
SEVEN: You were mistaken. He must be present to download these files.
STETH: Oh, I'm about to meet him at the holodeck. We can find the files  there.
SEVEN: Voyager's hierarchy is complex. See that you familiarise  yourself with it.
STETH: Good advice. I'll do that.
PARIS:  Everything here looks good. Just give me one more second to check the  flow field parameters.
STETH: Go ahead.
PARIS: It's my box wrench. I've been looking all over for this.
STETH: I know I should have asked you, Tom, but I needed it for an  experiment.
PARIS: To check your new carburettor?
STETH: Not quite. You're the first humans I've met and that wrench had  enough cellular residue on it for me to check your DNA. I have good  news. We're compatible.
JANEWAY: We were beginning to wonder if you were ever coming back.
KIM: His ship is powering engines.
JANEWAY: Something wrong, Tom?
CHAKOTAY: Mind if I join you?
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay will do, Tom. You don't carry this rules thing too far.  I've been discussing your engineering report with the captain. She was  wondering if we could implement some of Steth's technology here on  Voyager.
CHAKOTAY: We thought maybe you could start on a shuttle. Do you think  you can do it?
CHAKOTAY: Great. You can start right after you finish with the Doctor.
CHAKOTAY: He needs your help in Sickbay. I told him you'd be there.
CREWMAN: Lieutenant.
KIM: I know you've been avoiding the Doctor, but don't tell me you've  forgotten where Sickbay is?
KIM: I didn't realise you were that eager to get there. So tell me, are  they ready yet?
KIM: Great. Hey, let me know if you have any problems. Polyduranide can  be tough to replicate.
KIM: I can't wait to get my hands around one of those clubs. Ensign  Kaplan won't know what hit her.
KIM: We're going to play golf with her. We scheduled a rematch,  remember?
KIM: Have you been working on your putting? You missed both those  two-footers last time.
KIM: All right. Give the Doc my best.
EMH:  You're early, Mister Paris. I see some good came from my report to  Commander Chakotay. Let's put these extra few minutes to good use.  Begin with a thorough biobed diagnostic. I want you to recalibrate each  physiosensor, making sure to enter each metabolic referent precisely.
EMH: When you're through with that, run a protein structure analysis  and then continue your review of the thirty seven steps of a  cardiopulmonary reconstruction procedure. I'll leave you to your  biobeds.
EMH: Did you forget to disengage the scan emitters?
EMH: Mister Paris.
EMH: I realise it's complicated, but you must try again.
EMH: How fortunate you're already in Sickbay. I'll run a few scans.
EMH: You're here to learn, Mister Paris. It will get easier with time.
EMH: Excuse me?
EMH: Do you mean to tell me you've been trying to live up to my  standards?
EMH: It all makes sense now. The misplaced aggression, the shirking of  responsibilities. All classic signs of an inferiority complex. I had no  idea my superior abilities were affecting your psyche so strongly. Take  the rest of the day off. Reflect on your strengths. Realise your worth.
TORRES: What do you think you're doing?
TORRES: In my quarters?
TORRES: No.
TORRES: Tom. What is this?
TORRES: Why is it here?
TORRES: So this is your idea of an adult conversation? I don't know  what you are trying to accomplish with this little stunt, but let me  assure you, it is not working. I am sorry if you are bored because  Steth is gone, but that doesn't mean that you can just walk in here and  pretend like you haven't been shutting me out.
TORRES: Really?
TORRES: Steth turned out to be a positive influence on you.
COMPUTER: Navigation matrix one seven one one. The Kotaba expanse.  Coaxial leap complete.
COMPUTER: Unable to execute command.
COMPUTER: The differential induction drive has been secured. The  security access code is required to implement the coaxial leap.
AVIK : This is Commander Avek of the Benthan Guard. We're taking  you into custody. Prepare to surrender the vessel to us at once.
AVIK : We do not negotiate with thieves.
AVIK : Surrender the vessel peacefully or we will use force.
DAELEN: You know what I'm here for.
DAELEN: I'm Steth.
DAELEN: Look at me. You did wear this body for nearly a year before you  switched it with mine. That's my body you're in now. I want it back.
TORRES:  This better be good, Tom. I left Vorik right in the middle of an EPS  recalibration.
TORRES: So, what's my big surprise?
TORRES: You mean the planet where Neelix is gathering food samples?
TORRES: Only a day? Oh, I think that we would need at least a week.
TORRES: You're serious, aren't you.
TORRES: Do you know how much trouble we would be in?
TORRES: Tom, I am swamped. I can't get away for an hour, let alone  twenty four.
TORRES: I have responsibilities here. We both do.
TORRES: Tom, you're hurting me.
SEVEN: We were supposed to meet in the shuttlebay at twenty one  hundred hours. Did you forget?
SEVEN: The capillaries in your eyes are swollen, Lieutenant, and I see  signs of vascular congestion in your cheeks. Are you intoxicated?
SEVEN: You are not officially off-duty for another seventy eight  minutes.
SEVEN: That will not be necessary.
SEVEN: That would be an inefficient use of our time. I will complete  the work myself.
SEVEN: Before I leave, I would like to know why you were reading the captain's personal logs?
SEVEN: I saw the PADD. It was unmistakably the captain's logs.
SEVEN: You know I possess an eidetic memory. I require only seconds to  commit what I see to memory. Would you like me to quote the passage you  were reading?
SEVEN: Remove your hand from my arm.
JANEWAY: Enter.
JANEWAY: Yes. I received a rather disturbing report from Seven of Nine  regarding your conduct last night. She claims you were drinking on  duty.
JANEWAY: Don't lie to me, Tom. I checked the computers. You replicated  five alcoholic beverages in the mess hall. She also said you threatened  her.
JANEWAY: And is that why you were reading my personal logs?
JANEWAY: Seven recited a passage which I'd written, word for word.
JANEWAY: This has to stop, Tom. Your conduct lately has been bizarre,  and I've heard far too many complaints from far too many people to  dismiss it. Chakotay, the Doctor, Seven of Nine. They're all worried  about you. And so am I.
JANEWAY: Tom! As your Captain and as your friend, I want you to report  to Sickbay for some tests. We have to find out if there's something  physical that's causing this behaviour.
JANEWAY: That's an order.
JANEWAY  : Security, I need you in the ready room, now!
TUVOK:  Are you hurt, Captain?
JANEWAY: No. Take him to Sickbay. Keep security with him.
DAELEN:  The coaxial drive will be online in a few minutes.
DAELEN: The alien seems capable of some sort of selective DNA exchange.  He absorbs new DNA while depositing his current genetic material into  his victims. Let's hope he can reverse that process.
EMH:  Neurological scans yielded very little, but I did find something very  interesting in his blood analysis. There are traces of a second DNA  pattern in his nucleotide structure. Possibly the result of a genetic  virus.
TUVOK: Could this be the cause of his recent behaviour?
EMH: I don't know, but I'm running more scans to see how this might  have affected his neurological functions.
CHAKOTAY : Captain, a vessel just emerged from coaxial space off  our starboard bow.
JANEWAY: Keep me informed, Doctor.
JANEWAY: Hail them.
JANEWAY: Welcome back, Mister Steth.
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon.
JANEWAY: Maintain your position while we consider your  request. End transmission. Hold them in a tractor beam until you hear  from me.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: I have a feeling Steth and his new friend are behind  whatever's happened to Tom.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: No time to explain. I'll be in Sickbay.
SEVEN:  Captain?
KIM:  Commander, I'm reading an unauthorised shuttle launch. It's the  captain. She's in the shuttle Tom's been working on.
CHAKOTAY: Try hailing her.
KIM: She's not responding.
CHAKOTAY: Hail Steth's ship. Look, I don't know who you are, but I want  to know what's happening here.
CHAKOTAY: Captain Janeway.
CHAKOTAY: How do I know that?
CHAKOTAY: Harry, disengage the tractor beam.
DAELEN: Has he detected us yet?
DAELEN:  He's right. We can't risk killing him.
DAELEN: Shields are down.
DAELEN:  He's charging the coaxial drive.
DAELEN: I can't. He's blocking us. We won't be able to follow him once  he goes into coaxial warp. We're losing him.
STETH:  Doctor, I can't thank you enough. You've given me my life back.
EMH: All in a day's work.
STETH: There were times when I thought I would be stuck in that body  forever.
PARIS: Believe me, I'm just as happy to be back to the old Tom Paris.
JANEWAY: What do you plan to do now?
STETH: I'm going to take her back to Bentha. I hope to find the person  who belongs to that body.
EMH: But who knows if that's the end of it? We have no idea how long  she or he has been switching identities.
STETH: It may take a while, but I will do whatever I can to find  everyone you've violated.
JANEWAY: A security team will escort you to your ship and erect a  forcefield to contain her.
TORRES:  So this is where you've been hiding? A garage.
PARIS: It's more than just a garage. This is a monument to hundreds and  hundreds of hours that I probably should have spent with you.
TORRES: Probably?
PARIS: Definitely.
TORRES: It's a lovely garage, Tom, but I still don't understand why you  brought me here.
PARIS: Well, consider it a symbolic gesture. It's my less than subtle  attempt to let you in.
TORRES: I see. To make it clear that I mean almost as much to you as  a cam-a-ro.
PARIS: It's a mint condition 1969 Camaro. And yes, you mean a lot more  to me.
