PARIS:  That's one planet that never showed up on the multiple choice exam.
TUVOK: Its gravimetric readings are similar to that of a collapsed  dwarf star. It also resembles a quasar, in that it has a high rate of  rotation, approximately fifty eight revolutions per minute.
JANEWAY: Shall we take a closer look?
CHAKOTAY: That's what we're here for.
JANEWAY: Tom, put us in a high orbit.
PARIS: Aye.
TUVOK: Our warp drive is offline.
CHAKOTAY: Why?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Back us off.
PARIS: Our impulse engines aren't responding.
JANEWAY: The use the auxiliary thrusters.
KIM: We're in some kind of gravimetric gradient. It's pulling us toward  the planet.
SHAMAN:  The new one is brighter than Tahal, or any of his brothers in the sky.
NATIVE: What does he want from us?
SHAMAN: To answer that, we must learn the nature of this god. We must  understand the reason for his arrival. You were making an offering to  Tahal.
NATIVE: I placed the fire-fruit on his altar. Then the ground shook. I  looked up and the new one was there.
SHAMAN: The fire-fruit. Where is it?
SHAMAN: The new one doesn't want Tahal to  have the fire-fruit. Make an altar for him, as big as Tahal's. The  fire-fruit is only for the New One. No more for the people. It is His  alone. Ground Shaker, Light Bringer, take this today, and every day.  Accept our offering. Do not harm us.
JANEWAY:  Report.
TUVOK: We're in synchronous orbit, fifty seven thousand kilometres above  the planet's equator.
CHAKOTAY: Good work, Tom. Now, let's see
PARIS: You're patting the wrong guy on the back.
JANEWAY: Explain.
PARIS: Our thrusters went offline halfway through our descent and then  we just stopped, like we were caught in something.
TUVOK: I'm picking up a strong tachyon field along the hull. It could  be what's holding us.
SEVEN : Seven of Nine to the bridge.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Seven.
SEVEN : Please report to Astrometrics. There's something you must  see.
JANEWAY: On my way. Chakotay.
SEVEN:  The planet has a tachyon core. It's produced a subspace particle field  which runs between the poles. Voyager's arrival disrupted that field.
CHAKOTAY: It looks like the ship's been caught in an eddy of some kind.
JANEWAY: It's worse than that. Voyager seems to have become the  planet's third pole.
SEVEN: The imbalance is affecting the outer crust. I've picked up  indications of high-frequency seismic activity.
CHAKOTAY: Caused by our presence?
SEVEN: Possibly.
JANEWAY: Does anybody live down there?
SEVEN: The atmosphere is having a scattering effect on our sensors.
CHAKOTAY: Is that vegetation?
SEVEN: According to sensors, yes.
JANEWAY: The tachyon core has created a space-time differential between  the planet and the surrounding space. We're watching the seasons change  in a matter of seconds.
SEVEN: For each second that passes on Voyager, nearly a day goes by on  the planet.
JANEWAY: Scan for inhabitants.
SEVEN: I can't isolate individual lifeforms. It'll take time to correct  for the space-time differential
CHAKOTAY: A couple of hundred years, maybe? If our orbit starts to  decay, Voyager will begin to feel the effects of the differential and  we'll begin aging hundreds of times faster than we would in normal  space.
JANEWAY: Unless we want to live our lives in the blink of an eye, I  suggest we find a way out of here.
CHAKOTAY:  How's our warp core?
TORRES: The matter-antimatter reaction is still active, but this field  we're stuck in is raising hell with the nacelles. Until we break orbit,  warp drive is offline.
CHAKOTAY: Without warp drive, we'll never leave orbit.
TORRES: It does pose a bit of a problem, doesn't it?
CHAKOTAY: Maybe the key is to learn more about this planet, in case  we're missing something.
TORRES: Sensors aren't having an easy time of it either.
CHAKOTAY: Then let's modify a class-five probe for low orbit, see what  we can pick up. Configure the programme to scan along all subspace  bands, and set it for visual images every ten milliseconds.
TORRES: Snapshots. Why do I get the feeling you're not just interested  in tachyon fields?
CHAKOTAY: This could be the greatest anthropological find of my career.  If there's an intelligent species down there, we'll be able to track  their development, not just for days or weeks, but for centuries.
TORRES: Watch them discover new and better ways of beating each other  over the head.
CHAKOTAY: They won't necessarily follow the Klingon model.
TORRES: As opposed to the Human model? It'll take a few hours to make  the adjustments.
CHAKOTAY: A few hours. We might miss the rise and fall of a  civilisation.
TORRES: So we'll watch the next one.
CLERIC:  Oh. Oh, Protector.
KELEMENE: You're late.
CLERIC: Well, the hill is steep, and I, I'm not as young as I used to  be.
KELEMENE: More heat.
KELEMENE: There are grave matters of state here that cannot  be delayed.
CLERIC: Protector, what exactly are you doing?
KELEMENE: I'm sending him a letter.
CLERIC: Him? Sending who a letter?
KELEMENE: The Ground Shaker. The Light Bringer.
CLERIC: Had you been more attentive to my lessons when you were a  boy, you would not be so gullible as a man.
KELEMENE: On the contrary, you taught me well. Our ignorant ancestors  believed every star was a deity. You taught me how foolish that was.  Superstition, you called it.
CLERIC: And that's exactly what it is.
KELEMENE: Hungry?
CLERIC: It's bad fortune to eat the fire-fruit.
KELEMENE: According to whom? Our ancestors? Don't tell me you believe  that old superstition? Perhaps we shouldn't completely ignore the old  beliefs, no matter how strange they may seem today. Ground Shaker.  Ground shaker. Isn't it possible the name was not given arbitrarily?  That this star is indeed responsible for knocking down our walls and  making us stumble as we walk?
CLERIC: Oh yes, I heard about that. My condolences.
KELEMENE: You heard what?
CLERIC: Well, that you stumbled in front of several important people  during the last ground shake. Uh, very embarrassing, I'm sure.
KELEMENE: I did nothing of the sort.
CLERIC: Well, my hearing is not as good as it used to be, nor my  memory either. Now, what were we talking about?
KELEMENE: We were talking about ancient superstitions. Now, I don't  believe for a moment that the stars are gods, but then, what are they?
CLERIC: A great mystery to which there is no answer.
KELEMENE: I believe the sky is full of people just like ourselves.
CLERIC: What? Oh, nonsense.
KELEMENE: Prove me wrong. I say each star encompasses a city and the  Ground Shaker rules one of these cities. A fellow Protector. If I'm  correct, then he'll listen to me, one Protector to another. Your pen.
KELEMENE: I, Kelemane.
CLERIC: Kelemane.
KELEMENE: Son of Kelemane, ruler of the good people of the land below  you, demand that you stop what you're
CLERIC: Demand?
KELEMENE: Would hope?
CLERIC: Ah, better. Much better.
KELEMENE: Would hope that you might consider putting an end to whatever  it is you're doing that shakes our ground. If this causes you  inconvenience I'm willing to offer a recompense.
CLERIC: A recompense.
KELEMENE: I await your reply.
TORRES:  The next series of scans is coming through. I'm downloading them into  the display buffer.
CHAKOTAY: No doubt about it. There's a city down there.
TORRES: Elevated levels of carbon monoxide, ammonium. That's progress,  all right.
CHAKOTAY: They've developed internal combustion technology since the  last few scans. Look at those radial lines. It looks like a system of  roads.
TORRES: Well, one thing hasn't changed. The geological disturbances  that Voyager seems to be causing. The probe recorded half a dozen each  month. Still no way to tell how severe they are.
CHAKOTAY: Look at the amount of iron being used in that city. That's  ten times what you'd expect to see in a culture at this stage of  development.
TORRES: Do you think they're using it to support their buildings?
CHAKOTAY: If you lived on a planet that wouldn't stop shaking, you  might be doing the same thing. If they've reached this stage of  industrial development, they must be observing us.
TORRES: The probe's impulse thrusters are starting to fail. At its  present altitude, it's been operating for over two hundred years. Its  orbit is becoming decayed.
CHAKOTAY: Initiate self-destruct.
TORRES: It disintegrated in the upper thermosphere. If they saw  anything, it just looked like a shooting star.
ASTRONOMER:  Any response to our transmission?
TECHNICIAN: Nothing.
ASTRONOMER: No visual change either.
TECHNICIAN: Surprised?
ASTRONOMER: Send it again.
TECHNICIAN: The entire sequence? How about just the prime numbers?
ASTRONOMER: You're tired.
TECHNICIAN: So are you.
ASTRONOMER: The prime numbers and the elemental constants, then we'll  stop.
TECHNICIAN: An acceptable compromise. It's not as if they're going  anywhere, if they even exist in the first place.
ASTRONOMER: Do you doubt that?
TECHNICIAN: I doubt everything.
ASTRONOMER: So you weren't one of those children that had the entire  series of Sky Ship Friends?
TECHNICIAN: Actually, I had them all, even the duplicates. You couldn't  walk into my home without tripping over a Friend or two.
ASTRONOMER: Not in our home. My grandfather wouldn't allow it. He told  us that the Sky Ship was a palace where an Evil Protector lived. He  said that bad children were sent there to be punished. At this point,  I'd be happy to see anything, evil or not. Can you boost the signal?
TECHNICIAN: We're already at maximum. Maybe if we switched to a  different carrier wave to
TECHNICIAN: If there is somebody up there, they don't like  us very much.
ASTRONOMER: Any beings capable of building that Sky Ship could have  destroyed our world long ago. They're not causing the tremors on  purpose.
TECHNICIAN: What if they're all dead?
ASTRONOMER: If you truly believe that, why did you join this project?
TECHNICIAN: I doubt everything, remember? Even my own doubts. I hope  someone is up there.
ASTRONOMER: So do I.
TECHNICIAN: If they won't respond to mathematics, perhaps we should try  a more personal approach. Here, say hello.
ASTRONOMER: How could they possibly speak our language?
TECHNICIAN: There's only one way to find out.
ASTRONOMER: What, what should I say?
TECHNICIAN: Oh, glad to meet you. Where are you from? Please stop  shaking our planet.
SEVEN:  An ultra high frequency signal is being transmitted from the surface.  The modulation is unfamiliar. Its Doppler component is
CHAKOTAY: Any signal from the surface will be accelerated. When it  reached our time frame, the frequency would be thousands of times higher  than normal.
SEVEN: I will attempt to slow it down.
CHAKOTAY: Again. Amplitude modulation. It's a radio transmission.
SEVEN: It's a numerical sequence.
CHAKOTAY: Prime numbers. They're sending a list of prime numbers.
SEVEN: Followed by a sequence of mathematical constants, and what  appears to be a vocal modulation.
CHAKOTAY: Slow it down again. A little more.
ASTRONOMER : Good friends in the Sky Ship. I call you that, hoping,  at least, you're not enemies.
ASTRONOMER  : There's nothing on our world that resembles your technology, so  we assume you came here from a nearby planet or a distant star. Our  ancient mythology describes your arrival centuries ago, coinciding with  the tremors that continually shake our planet and destroy so many of  our accomplishments. I hope that was never your intention, but the  result is the same. Respond if you can. Or if you wish, come down from  your Sky Ship and visit us.
PARIS: Well, we've got to let them know we're not doing it on purpose.
TUVOK: Inadvisable. The Prime Directive still applies. This  transmission was made with primitive radio technology. They are not a  warp capable civilisation.
PARIS: To hell with the Prime Directive. That man deserves an answer.
TORRES: Don't forget the temporal differential. That man has been dead  for a long time.
EMH: Nearly a century by now.
PARIS: Okay, so we send a message to his great grandchildren. I'll  gladly do the honours.
CHAKOTAY: Ancient mythology. That means we've already insinuated  ourselves into their culture. Why not take the next step?
JANEWAY: First contact with a pre-warp society.
PARIS: We've already made first contact. They know we're up here.
JANEWAY: They've known for hundreds of years, which means our presence  has been tempered by time. We've gradually become part of their mythos.  Meeting us could throw that belief system into chaos.
PARIS: But we're destroying their planet. You heard him.
CHAKOTAY: A first contact, face to face, might give us information we  could use to leave orbit. That would stop the damage. It's worth the  risk.
JANEWAY: We don't even know if an away team could survive the  transition to their time frame. Doctor, correct me if I'm wrong, but the  physiological stress could be fatal.
EMH: For one of you, perhaps, but not for me. My holomatrix would be  unaffected.
JANEWAY: You'd be going only as an observer. You're not to make  contact.
KIM: I  localised the source of the transmission to a subcontinent in the  southern hemisphere.
CHAKOTAY: The Central Protectorate?
KIM: How do you know that?
CHAKOTAY: I've been looking at the data from Astrometrics. Seven's  picked up a few of their local transmissions. I can tell you the names  of all twenty six states on the planet.
KIM: And all the best places to eat?
CHAKOTAY: Just about.
KIM: So is this Central Protectorate a good place to send the Doctor?
CHAKOTAY: Probably. Judging from the transmissions, they seem to have a  tolerant society.
KIM: Hmm. Well, just to be on the safe side, I'll find him an isolated  spot.
TORRES:  I'm giving you access to your facial and epidermal parameters. You  should be able to mimic the appearance of whoever is down there in a  matter of seconds.
EMH: What if they're big, purple blobs of protoplasm?
JANEWAY: Then you'll be the best looking blob on the planet. I'm  keeping you down there for three seconds, Doctor. That will be almost  two days in their time frame. Gather whatever data you can. Seismic  charts, meteorological records, anything that might give us a clue  about how to break orbit.
EMH: Understood.
TORRES: This will speed up the scanning rate of your programme, allow  you to make the transition.
EMH: See you soon.
JANEWAY: Energising.
TORRES: One, two, three.
JANEWAY: The confinement beam is destabilising.
TORRES: It's the temporal field. We'll have to recalibrate.
JANEWAY: Every second he's down there he's in danger of being  discovered.
TORRES: Locking on again.
JANEWAY: We've lost him.
KIM: I'm  scanning within a one hundred kilometre radius of where we sent him.  Nothing.
CHAKOTAY: He could've moved across the continent by now, or to the  other side of the planet.
KIM: Increasing radius to one thousand kilometres.
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN : Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Have you picked up any information regarding opera houses or  concert halls?
SEVEN : The cultural centre of the state runs along the shore of  the eastern lake.
KIM: Got him. B'Elanna, stand by for the coordinates.
TORRES : Acknowledged.
TORRES:  I've reinitialised the confinement beam. It's holding.
JANEWAY: Locking on.
EMH: Captain! Lieutenant! I thought I'd never see you again.
JANEWAY: Are you all right?
EMH: Oh, I've had a few close calls over the years, but all in all
TORRES: Years?
EMH: It's been over three, but at least I knew you hadn't left me  behind. All I had to do was look up and there you were, the brightest  star in the sky.
JANEWAY: Well, what do they know about us?
EMH: Only that we arrived here centuries ago. They blame us for the  seismic tremors but everything else is pure speculation. And let me  tell you, they like nothing better than to speculate about Voyager.  Doric would go on and on. Sky Ship this, Sky Ship that.
TORRES: Doric?
EMH: The owner of the building I lived in until the war started.
JANEWAY: There was a war?
EMH: Oh, the neighbouring state decided to lob a few cannon shells at  us. Our Tactical Air Command responded and a new treaty was signed in a  matter of weeks, but not before my apartment was in ruins.
JANEWAY: Oh, so they have aviation technology?
EMH: They're hardly savages, Captain. In fact, they're making great  strides technologically, thanks in part to Voyager.
TORRES: What do you mean?
EMH: From the moment our ship arrived in the sky, they've been trying to  make contact. Our presence has encouraged invention, religion, science,  art even children's toys. They're all variations on a single theme,  Voyager. Mareeza even composed an aria based on the Sky Ship. I sang the  lyric.
JANEWAY: Mareeza?
EMH: She was my roommate. Three years is a long time, Captain. One  needs companionship.
JANEWAY: You'll get no argument from me. But did you learn anything  that might help us break orbit?
EMH: It's all in here.
EMH:  Meteorological records for the last three hundred years. I've committed  them all to memory. Some are inaccurate almanacs, but the more recent  ones include detailed seismic analyses.
JANEWAY: Get that information to Astrometrics. See if you can find any  pattern to the quakes. Might help us figure a way out of here.
TORRES: See you in Sickbay. I'll download the data from your programme  and we'll do a little cosmetic surgery, too.
EMH: Lieutenant?
TORRES: Unless you prefer looking like that.
EMH: Of course, I completely forgot. If some of the people on the  planet had their way, those weapons would be pointed at Voyager.  Luckily the ship is still out of range, for now.
JANEWAY: I guess I can't blame them.
EMH: There's something of a space race going on between the various  states. Who can get to the starship first with a rocket?
JANEWAY: Are we talking about a capsule with an astronaut or a missile  with a warhead?
EMH: I can't answer that, but at their present rate of development, we  won't have to wait very long to find out.
NAOMI:  How does this sound? The Weird Planet Where Time Moved Very Fast And So  Did The People Who Lived There, by Naomi Wildman. That's what I'm  calling my report for astronomy class. Neelix said I should choose a  planet to write about, so I picked this one.
SEVEN: Your title is verbose. I suggest you try to condense it.
NAOMI: The Weird Planet.
SEVEN: Better, but it lacks precision. The Weird Planet Displaced in  Time.
NAOMI: Perfect.
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to the bridge. I'm transmitting my calculations  directly to the helm.
JANEWAY : Acknowledged.
NAOMI: What's happening?
SEVEN: The Doctor brought back data regarding the planet's graviton  field. We're using it to realign our thrusters.
NAOMI: That'll be great for my report.
JANEWAY : All hands, this is the Captain. Secure your stations and  prepare to break orbit.
SEVEN: Brace yourself. Our altitude is increasing. Fifty metres. Sixty.  Seven of Nine to the bridge. Our attempt to leave orbit is increasing  the seismic activity. We must abort.
JANEWAY : Agreed.
NAOMI: Is the planet okay?
SEVEN: Minimal damage along the equatorial coastline. Nothing serious.
NAOMI: Seven, do you think we'll ever be able to leave?
SEVEN: Eventually.
NAOMI: I hope so. I need a way to end my report.
LAUNCH CONTROL: Proceed.
TRINA: Final stage. Ready.
TRINA: There's nothing wrong with the transponder.
TRINA: Everything else is working perfectly. Ignite the final stage. We  have to proceed with the mission.
TRINA: Initiate deceleration thrusters.
TRINA: Watch your pitch angle.
TRINA: Distance check.
TRINA: Rendezvous sequence locked in.
TRINA: Distance check.
TRINA: Let's take a look.
TRINA: I guess we'll have to go inside.
TRINA: Our orders were to learn as much as possible about the Sky Ship.  That's my intention. I saw something that looks like a transfer port.  It might be a place we can dock. Move in closer.
TRINA:  Wait, wait.
TRINA: A little disoriented. Let's keep going.
TRINA: Her skin feels warm.
TRINA:  It might be some sort of metabolic stasis. But then why does it look  like they're just going about their business?
TRINA: Try and stay calm.
TRINA: You're the best pilot we have. That's why you're on this  mission. This is no different than flying your favourite
TRINA: I can't argue with that. Another few minutes, then we'll go  back. This looks like their command centre.
TRINA: Could the laws of physics be different here?
TUVOK: Intruder Alert. Security team to deck one.
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up a ship at docking port one. It just  appeared there.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. Medical emergency.
JANEWAY:  What can you tell me.
EMH: The transition to our time frame was a little rough for them. I'm  afraid his colleague didn't make it.
JANEWAY: How is he?
EMH: Recovering. Lucky for him I'm as good as his family doctor. After  three years of poring over their medical journals, I know as much about  their physiology as I do yours. Easy.
JANEWAY: She didn't survive the transition. I'm very sorry.
JANEWAY: You understand what's happened to you?
JANEWAY: Voyager exists in the same space-time as the rest of the  galaxy. Your planet is different.
JANEWAY: Actually, we just got here, And we're hoping you can help us  find a way to leave.
JANEWAY: That's correct.
JANEWAY: I have to disagree. For someone whose life has just been  turned upside down, I think you're doing fine.
JANEWAY: that's up to you. I have no intention of keeping you here  against your will. The Doctor spent some time on your planet collecting  data that we hoped would help us find a way to leave orbit. We need you  to assist us in interpreting that information. However, the longer you  stay on board, the more difficult it will be for you to go home. Your  culture is changing every second you're here. By the time you go back,  you might find it more alien than ours.
JANEWAY: To Voyager?
JANEWAY: I hope you're not disappointed.
EMH: The  information I brought back is in Voyager's database. Seven of Nine has  been trying to make sense of it. She'll welcome your assistance.
EMH: Mountain, of course. Don't tell me you're a Lakeside supporter.
EMH: How are they doing this season?
EMH: I don't believe it! Who's guarding for them?
EMH: Any relation to the Torelius?
EMH: I saw the original defend for Mountain in the playoffs against Red  River.
EMH: He would have gone into voluntary exile after a 5-12 season.
SEVEN: Very well.
SEVEN: A simple conversion will compensate for that.
SEVEN: None that I've seen. Your world appears to be unique.
SEVEN: You're a highly adaptable species. Your scientists will find a  way to compensate for the temporal differential.
SEVEN: Perhaps they'll miss Voyager so much, they'll do everything they  can to follow us.
SEVEN: An antimatter implosion. Your world is experimenting with warp  technology. The sensors detected an early test. Another test, six weeks  later, and a third. More controlled each time. They're learning  quickly.  Too quickly.
PARIS:  What was that?
TUVOK: Unknown, but our shields are down to eighty two percent. Sixty  four percent.
KIM: I don't know what's causing it. There's nothing on sensors.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Seven of Nine.
SEVEN : Go ahead, Captain.
JANEWAY: Are you picking up
JANEWAY  : Anything in Astrometrics?
SEVEN: The inhabitants appear to have developed antimatter torpedo  technology.
SEVEN  : I believe we're under attack.
TUVOK: Another direct hit. Shields at forty nine percent.
JANEWAY: Unfortunately, they've got every right.
CHAKOTAY: We've already tried to hail them. It doesn't look like  they're able to receive our transmissions.
TUVOK: A logical assumption. Shields down to thirty four percent.
KIM: The torpedoes are being fired at three day intervals. They're  making refinements each time, increasing the detonation yield.
PARIS: Captain, isn't it time we returned fire?
CHAKOTAY: We've done enough damage to these people over the last  thousand years.
JANEWAY: You've got to go back. It's the only way. Make them understand  who we are. You have the specifications of this ship. Your scientists  might be able to use them to help free us. At the very least, get them  to hold their fire.
KIM: Captain, the transporters are offline.
JANEWAY: Is his vessel still intact?
KIM: The docking port hasn't been hit yet.
JANEWAY: Good luck.
EMH:  This will accelerate your metabolic functions, help you make the  transition.
EMH: It was a pleasure to treat a fellow citizen. Would you do me a  favour?
EMH: Find out what happened to a boy named Jason Tabreez. He lived in  the Central Protectorate.
EMH: Yes. He was my son.
EMH: It's a long story. He's dead by now, but perhaps you could  discover what happened to him. Maybe he had children or grandchildren.  You could tell them about me.
WEATHER COORDINATOR : Who is this?
WEATHER COORDINATOR : Clear the channel or I'm going to report you  to the command centre.
WEATHER COORDINATOR : I'm the weather coordinator for Station zero  zero four. You're in violation of transmission regulations.
WEATHER COORDINATOR : Let me guess. You finally decided to come  home. You're Gotana-Retz?
WEATHER COORDINATOR : Launch Control became the Tactical Command  Centre fifty years ago. You're dead.
WEATHER COORDINATOR : Then it's a good thing you decided to leave.  They're about to shoot it down.
WEATHER COORDINATOR : Tactical Command frequencies are classified.  Now get off this channel.
TUVOK:  Shields at twenty three percent. Seventeen percent. Shields are down.
PARIS: What was that last one?
KIM: A tricobalt device.
PARIS: What will they think of next?
TUVOK: Damage reports coming in. Imminent hull breeches on decks eight,  nine and ten. Life support is failing.
JANEWAY: Our astronaut should have made it by now.
KIM: Based on his descent velocity, he landed about ten minutes ago.
CHAKOTAY: That's a year and a half.
JANEWAY: Then he must have failed.
TUVOK: I'm picking up another launch. Two massive energy signatures.
CHAKOTAY: Tricobalt devices?
TUVOK: Unknown.
JANEWAY: Brace yourselves.
TUVOK: We're in some kind of tractor beam.
PARIS: Captain, if I alternate thrusters I might be able to break us  free.
JANEWAY: No. Let's give our friends the benefit of the doubt.
KIM: They're pulling us away from the planet.
TUVOK: We've broken orbit.
JANEWAY: Try hailing them.
CHAKOTAY: Looks like somebody down there listened to you.
JANEWAY: Now we can make first contact the proper way.
TUVOK: Captain, we'll be able to bring the warp drive back online in  approximately two hours.
JANEWAY: Very good. Thank you.
