EMH:  Ensign Kim, please try and hold us steady. This material is extremely
EMH  : Fragile.
KIM: Sorry, Doc. I'm doing the best I can.
EMH : Maybe I should've insisted
EMH: On  a more experienced pilot, like Mister Paris.
KIM: I'd  give anything to trade places with him right now.
EMH : Seven, can you join me, please?
SEVEN: On my way.
KIM: I don't know if I can take three more days of chasing comets with  him.
SEVEN: The time might pass more easily if we disable his vocal  processor.
EMH: I  thought you might find this interesting.
SEVEN: Preanimate biomatter.
EMH: Look deeper.
SEVEN: An undeveloped nucleus contained in a cytoplasmic matrix.
EMH: And buried deep inside that nucleus, primitive strands of DNA. The  beginnings of life, Seven.
SEVEN: What's your point?
EMH: When I look at this, I don't see a mere cell. I see the potential  for literature and art, empires and kingdoms.
SEVEN: Perhaps your visual subroutines are malfunctioning.
EMH: Someday, this cytoplasmic matrix may fall into the primordial sea  of a distant world where it could ignite an evolutionary process. Eons  from now, a creature not unlike you could emerge, look up at the stars  and ask, who am I? How did I come to be? It's the miracle of creation,  Seven. Doesn't that excite you?
EMH: Ensign Kim, I asked you to hold us  steady.
KIM:  We're under attack! This is the Federation ship Delta Flyer. We're on a  peaceful mission. Hold your fire.
RANEK : You're transporting a suspected photonic insurgent through  Lokirrim space. Drop your shields and prepare to be boarded.
KIM: Photonic insurgent? If you're referring to the hologram, he's our doctor. Seven, we've lost thrusters.
SEVEN:  I'll try reinitialising the driver coils.
KIM : Voyager, this is the Flyer. Mayday.
KIM:  Come in.
COMPUTER: Subspace communications are offline.
SEVEN : It's a tractor beam.
KIM: Remodulate our shields.
KIM  : That should break us free.
SEVEN: Shields are down.
EMH:  What's happening?
SEVEN: They're using some kind of disruption field. It's decompiling  your matrix.
RANEK  : Federation vessel, power down your systems and prepare to  surrender the photonic.
KIM: Seven, they're pulling us in. You're going to have to hide the  Doctor's programme.
EMH: Do  something, please.
JARYN:  We don't want to hurt you. We're here for the insurgent.
RANEK:  Where's the photonic?
KIM: Seven?
JARYN: Biogenic material. It could be used to create viral weapons.
RANEK: Confiscate it.
RANEK: What's this?
RANEK: Have this analysed.
LOKIRRIM: Yes, sir.
JARYN: There's no one else aboard.
RANEK: Take them to detention, and secure their ship in the docking  bay.
KIM: You got what you wanted. Let us go.
RANEK: Transporting photonics and manufacturing biogenic weapons are  serious charges.
LOKIRRIM: Let's go.
KIM: I  want to talk to your superior.
KIM: That'd be the least of our problems.
KIM: Not as desperate? We're prisoners on an alien ship. Voyager has no  idea we're missing, and the Doctor's been decompiled.
KIM: Doc?
KIM: And now you're in control of Seven's body?
KIM: What about Seven? Is she all right?
KIM: Then we need the mobile emitter.
KIM: Careful. That's not your body, remember?
KIM: What?
KIM: I don't smell anything.
KIM: It's been a busy day. I guess I'm perspiring a little.
PARIS:  Headache, fever, respiratory distress, tremors. It looks like some kind of  virus.
TUVOK: It is not a virus.
PARIS: You want to tell me what's going on?
TUVOK: In the Doctor's database, you'll find a medication under file  theta twelve alpha. Please, replicate it immediately.
PARIS: You know I can't give out medicine without knowing what it's  for.
TUVOK: If you must know, I am suffering from a neurochemical imbalance.
PARIS: An imbalance.
TUVOK: It is native to my species.
PARIS: Ah. This wouldn't be the kind of imbalance that comes around  once every seven years?
TUVOK: My pon farr is in the early stages. The urges are still  controllable.
PARIS: You never fail to amaze me, Tuvok. A man of your advanced years  still driven by the mating instinct?
TUVOK: Unlike in humans, the Vulcan libido increases with time.
PARIS: Well, I guess there has to be some kind of reward for all that  Vulcan discipline.
TUVOK: The Doctor anticipated my needs and developed a treatment.  Combined with meditation, it will enable me to control the symptoms.
PARIS: Well, if that doesn't work, there's always a cold sonic shower.  I'll tell the captain that you'll be out of commission for a couple of  days.
TUVOK: She will want to know why.
PARIS: Well, according to my tricorder, all we've got here is a mild  case of the Tarkalean flu.
TUVOK: Thank you, Lieutenant.
KIM: They're prison rations. My uniform probably tastes better.
KIM: Why?
KIM: There's just one small problem. You don't have a stomach. Where is  the food going to go?
KIM: Maybe we should focus on something more productive, like getting  out of here.
JARYN: You. Come with us.
KIM: I'm the senior officer. If you're going to take someone, take me.
JARYN: My orders were specific.
LOKIRRIM:  The prisoner, sir.
RANEK: Pulse-phased weapons, duranium-enforced hull. Much more  sophisticated than the typical smuggler's vessel.
RANEK: If you are innocent, then you won't mind telling me more about  this vessel. For instance, this device. What does it do?
RANEK: Can it be used to create bioweapons?
RANEK: How do I know you're not trying to poison me?
RANEK: Is this the first time you've tried that?
RANEK: What other foods can that device create?
RANEK: Your Captain.
RANEK: I hope you understand, I had no choice.
RANEK: Maybe there's something I could do for you. I'll speak to  my superiors, ask for leniency.
RANEK: What do you mean?
RANEK: All right. If I give this back to you, will you do something for  me?
KIM: Are you drunk?
KIM: What happened?
KIM: You had a dinner date in Seven's body?
KIM: I won't ask what you had to do to get this.
KIM: Let's download your programme before they change their mind. Hey,  careful where you point those tubules.
KIM: Easy. How do you feel?
SEVEN: Impaired.
EMH: You've had quite a shock to your system. Let me explain what's  happened.
SEVEN: I know exactly what's happened. You've been abusing my body.
EMH: I'm a doctor.
KIM: Shush!
EMH: I would never abuse your body. I was trying to get information.  Sometimes a glass of wine can loosen the tongue.
SEVEN: One glass. That doesn't excuse the other eight.
EMH: Was it that many? Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
KIM: Seven, you were aware of everything?
SEVEN: Painfully.
EMH: I'm afraid the role of spy wasn't written into my programme. I was  forced to improvise.
SEVEN: You improvised your way through an entire cheesecake, as well as  three servings of Ktarian chocolate puffs. Now I have to suffer the  consequences.
EMH: I apologise if I overindulged. I'll be more careful next time.
SEVEN: There won't be a next time.
EMH: I'll be discovered. They'll decompile my programme.
KIM: Shush. I know this is difficult for you, but you're going to have  put up with it until we can get out of here.
SEVEN: How do you propose we do that?
KIM: Maybe you can tap into their comm. system, get a message to  Voyager.
EMH: Deciphering alien computers isn't exactly my forte.
SEVEN: But it is one of mine. If you can get close enough while they're  accessing their systems, I'll be able to observe their command  protocols.
LOKIRRIM : What's the situation?
JARYN: The Captain wants the female prisoner in the medical bay.
SEVEN: We should proceed.
EMH: You're saving my life. I want you to know how grateful I am.
SEVEN: Try to remember that the next time you're tempted to  overindulge.
JARYN:  The photonic's viral weapon attacks the cerebral cortex. Within days,  the victim suffers complete synaptic failure.
JARYN: Tactical officer, medic, engineer. We've lost nearly a third of  our crew to the photonics.
JARYN: Actually, Emmik always thought I'd become a teacher. He used to  call me the little professor.
JARYN: The photonic who helped raise my brother and me. He knew more  about treating scrapes and bruises than any organic Doctor I ever met.
JARYN: Maybe. Before he joined the insurgency.
JARYN: I ask myself that question every day. We never treated him like  a servant, but he turned against us anyway.
JARYN: I don't see how. He lived his own life, pursued his own  interests. He was part of our family. At least I thought he was. We  should get back to the patient.
JARYN: Thank you.
PARIS:  Your neurotransmitters aren't absorbing the medication.
TUVOK: Can you increase the dosage?
PARIS: Not without causing damage to your neocortex. The Doc might be  able to synthesise a stronger medicine, but
TUVOK: I'll make the best of the situation until he returns.
PARIS: I do have one area of expertise that might help. The holodeck.
TUVOK: I am a married man.
PARIS: It's the holodeck, Tuvok. It doesn't count.
TUVOK: Is that what you tell your wife?
PARIS: No, of course not. My days of rescuing slave girls from Planet  Ten are history. Look, you have photographs of your wife, right? The  computer can use them to create a replica. You wouldn't be breaking  your vows if it's a hologram of your wife.
T'PEL:  As it was in the dawn of our days, as it will be for all tomorrows. To  you, my husband, I consecrate all that I am.
TUVOK: T'Pel, my wife. From you I receive all that I am.
T'PEL: As it was in the beginning, so shall it be now.
TUVOK: Two bodies, one mind.
PARIS:  I'm picking up a vessel closing at high impulse. They're firing.
CHAKOTAY: Shields are holding.
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the  Federation Starship Voyager. We're on a peaceful mission.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: We've detected photonic activity aboard your vessel.  Drop your shields and prepare to be boarded.
JANEWAY: Photonic activity?
PARIS: Tuvok. He's in holodeck two.
CHAKOTAY: They're firing again. It's some kind of photonic disrupter  directed at holodeck two
JANEWAY: Target their weapons array and fire.
CHAKOTAY: They're hailing.
JANEWAY: On screen.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: Drop your shields and prepare to receive our  inspection teams.
JANEWAY: You're not in a position to be making demands. Why did you  fire on us?
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: Your vessel is carrying photonics through Lokirrim  space.
JANEWAY: We didn't realise that was forbidden. We'd be happy to shut  down our holodecks.
JANEWAY:N Your sensors should confirm they've been  deactivated.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: You're still required to submit to inspection.
JANEWAY: Your sensors should also confirm that our weapons are ready to  fire. We're both reasonable people. I suggest a compromise. Your vessel  will escort us through Lokirrim territory. That way, you can keep an  eye on us, make sure we don't reactivate our holodecks. The other  alternative is, we destroy your ship.
LOKIRRIM CAPTAIN: Your proposal is acceptable.
JANEWAY: Sometimes diplomacy requires a little sabre rattling. Begin  long range scans.
JARYN: I  can picture them now. My father in his airponics bay, pruning his cona  vines. My mother, reading in her favourite chair. Nothing in that home  ever changes.
JARYN: I've never been away this long before. His progress is  remarkable. I want you to know, I'm going to tell my superiors  everything you've done for us.
JARYN: I know someone who'd really enjoy meeting you.
JARYN: My brother, Lohden.
JARYN: You'd like him. He's ambitious, accomplished, and he'd love your  sense of humour.
RANEK: Seven of Nine. Please report to the bridge.
RANEK: I wanted to thank you. I had a wonderful time the other night.
RANEK: It's been a long time for me, too. I remembered your interest in  stellar phenomenon, so I requested a course change to show you something.
RANEK: To an astronomer, it's simply a pulsar cluster. But our poets  call it the Window of Dreams. You can travel from one end of the Quadrant to the other and never see anything like it.
RANEK: It's the pulsar's EM fields vibrating against our hull.
RANEK: I once  thought this was the most beautiful sight in the sector. I see now that  I was wrong. Oh, I almost forgot.
RANEK: Is something wrong?
RANEK: No, I'm not going to the medical bay.
RANEK: I don't need an exam to know what I'm suffering from.
RANEK: I'm sorry. I thought.
RANEK: I didn't mean to offend you. It's just I've never met a woman  like you before.
JARYN:  Is something wrong?
JARYN: I'm surprised to hear that.
JARYN: I'm not defending what he did, but you have to understand we've  been out here for a long time. It's difficult to hide your feelings  especially when you work closely with someone you're attracted to.
JARYN: It looks like a spasm in the trapezius.
JARYN: That's what happens when you work so long without rest. Our last  medic showed me a technique that might help. I, I'll try it, if you  like.
JARYN: Oh, did I hurt you?
JARYN: Well then, what's wrong?
JARYN: It's all right. I know.
JARYN: Your cybernetic implants? Your portable regenerator?
JARYN: I would never say anything to the crew. But Ranek knows.
JARYN: Of course. It was apparent the moment we scanned you.
JARYN: It wouldn't have been appropriate. You're part Borg. It's  nothing to be ashamed of.
WOMAN : Security to Medical bay.
JARYN: This is Lieutenant Jaryn.
WOMAN : The prisoner is ill. He's requesting treatment by his  crewmate.
KIM: Argh, Argh.
KIM: Ow, argh, ow. Where the hell have you been? I had to fake a  seizure before the guard would let me see you.
KIM: Did you get a look at their computer?
SEVEN: During the one brief moment when the Doctor wasn't indulging  himself.
EMH: I think I've shown considerable restraint, under the circumstances.
SEVEN: Kissing Ranek on the bridge. Is that your idea of restraint?
KIM: Kissing?
EMH: Not that it's any of your business, but if you must know Ranek  kissed me.
SEVEN: And the massage you got from Lieutenant Jaryn?
EMH: Entirely therapeutic.
SEVEN: You became sexually aroused in my body.
EMH: When did it become a crime to enjoy a sensation or two? Of course,  you'd be the last person to understand that.
SEVEN: What do you mean?
EMH: The whole world is full of experiences and sensations, but you  insist on denying yourself. Instead of replicating caviar, you choose  nutritional supplement thirteen alpha.
SEVEN: Caviar is an indulgence.
EMH: Indulgences are what make life worth living.
KIM: Shush.
EMH: These last few days have been a revelation. Feeling your lungs  fill with air, the surge of adrenaline through your veins. Until I  spent a day in your skin, I never knew what I was missing.
SEVEN: You may have been better off not knowing.
EMH: We're quite a pair. Me trapped by the limitations of photons and  forcefields, you by a drone's obsession with efficiency. You'd make an  excellent hologram.
KIM: All right, listen. You can argue all you want when we get back to  Voyager, but that's not going to happen unless we come up with a plan.  Did you learn anything about their comm. system?
SEVEN: It can only be accessed from the bridge, but I saw Ranek enter  his command codes.
KIM: If we can get those codes to Voyager, they may be able to disable  the shields and beam us out.
EMH: How are we going to do that?
SEVEN: The subspace transceiver on the Flyer.
KIM: Can you get aboard?
SEVEN: It's heavily guarded.
EMH: I can get us aboard.
RANEK: I was the one who acted inappropriately.
RANEK: I won't make that mistake again.
RANEK: What did you have in mind?
RANEK: I thought
SEVEN: Oh, I can make an exception for a special occasion. Computer,  champagne, two glasses. To new beginnings.
RANEK: Maybe there's some hope for us yet.
RANEK: Oh, this is interesting.
CREWMAN : Captain Ranek, please come to the bridge.
RANEK: What is it?
CREWMAN : We've received an encrypted transmission.
RANEK: I'll be right there.
RANEK: I'll be back as soon as I can.
TUVOK:  Still no sign of the Flyer's warp signature.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your sense of duty, Tuvok, but we can handle the  situation without you.
TUVOK: Under the circumstances, abandoning my post would be a  dereliction of duty. My illness is still in the early stages. I can  control it.
JANEWAY: If I remember correctly, the last time you came down with the  Tarkalean Flu was seven years ago. As soon as this is over, the holodeck  is at your disposal.
NEELIX: There you are, Commander. Now, a person in your condition  really ought to be in bed. This is my grandmother's recipe, guaranteed  to cure even the most stubborn flu. Now, Smell that?
TUVOK: I don't smell anything.
NEELIX: Exactly. I prepared it just the way you like it. No herbs or  spices of any kind. It's practically tasteless.
TUVOK: We're receiving a hail. It's the Delta Flyer.
JANEWAY: On screen. Seven, it's good to see you.
JANEWAY: Are the Doctor and Harry all right?
JANEWAY: Doctor?
CHAKOTAY: They may be in more trouble than we thought.
JANEWAY: Set a course.
PARIS: Our escort isn't going to take kindly to a detour.
JANEWAY: What's the status of their weapons?
TUVOK: They've repaired their forward phasers.
JANEWAY: Target their power matrix. We may only get one shot, so make  it count.
TUVOK: Ready.
JANEWAY: Do it.
TUVOK: Direct hit.
JANEWAY: Get us out of here, maximum warp.
JARYN:  What's wrong with him?
JARYN: That doesn't sound like Ranek.
JARYN: Reviving him.
RANEK: Take her to detention. And separate her from the other prisoner.
JARYN: There are traces of sedative in your bloodstream.
RANEK: What was your plan? To aid the insurgents?
JARYN: We trusted you.
RANEK: We were going to recommend leniency.
LOKIRRIM : Alien vessel approaching.
RANEK: I want her where I can see her.
TUVOK:  They're raising shields.
JANEWAY: Stand by with those command codes. Open a channel. This is  Captain Kathryn Janeway. We don't want a fight. Return my people and  we'll be on our way.
RANEK : Your people were caught transporting a photonic  insurgent and biogenic material.
JANEWAY: We don't want to disable your ship, but we will if we have to.
JARYN:  We're losing our ventral shield grid.
RANEK: Compensate.
JARYN: I'm trying. They've tapped into the shield matrix. They're using  your command authorisation.
CHAKOTAY:  They're rerouting power. He's tying their shields directly into the  warp matrix.
RANEK : If you fire on us, you'll trigger a core breach.  You'll be killing the people you're here to rescue.
JANEWAY: End transmission. Tractor beam.
RANEK:  Full reverse. Target their emitters.
TUVOK:  They've broken free.
JANEWAY: Chakotay, can you send a comm. signal directly to Seven's  cortical node?
JANEWAY  : Doctor, if you can hear me, we need your help. Try to disable  their shields.
JARYN: It's a photonic.
SEVEN: Cover me.
EMH: Stay back! I'm not afraid to use this.
RANEK: Step away.
JARYN: She destabilised the shield grid. It's failing.
RANEK: Watch them.
SEVEN: If you try to re-initialise the grid it'll overload. We could  all die.
EMH: Ranek, don't.
JARYN: Stay back.
EMH: I'm a doctor. Let me help.
TUVOK:  Their shields are down. I have a lock.
JANEWAY: Away team, stand by for transport.
EMH: I  have injured here, Captain. I can't leave yet. He'll die without  immediate surgery. I know this is difficult to grasp, but I'm the  person you've been getting to know the last few days. My programme was  in control of Seven's body.
JARYN: You're lying.
EMH: I know you have feelings for Ranek. If he dies, you're never going  to forgive yourself.
EMH:  Your vital signs are stable.
RANEK: I suppose I should be grateful.
EMH: A thank you is customary after someone saves your life.
RANEK: What happened was between me and Seven of Nine, not you.
EMH: I'm sorry you feel that way. The truth is, aside from a few  awkward moments, I enjoyed our time together.
EMH: There are many women  who'd appreciate an attractive man like you. I'm just not one of them.
JARYN: More of our vessels are on the way. You should leave while you  can.
RANEK: Thank you.
EMH: I guess you won't be introducing me to your brother.
JARYN: I'm not sure you're the kind of person he's interested in.
EMH: You mean because I'm a hologram. I don't imagine this experience  is going to change your feelings about photonics, but I wanted you to  know I'm grateful for the time we've spent together.
JARYN: You're a talented doctor. We're the ones who should be grateful.
EMH: I'm glad I could help. Doctor to Voyager. One to beam out.
PARIS:  Commander, it's good to see you're over the flu.
TUVOK: I have fully recovered. Thank you for your assistance.
PARIS: Ah, don't mention it. I just hope everything was okay.
TUVOK: Not exactly. My wife's ears are four millimetres shorter than  your facsimile's.
PARIS: So I took a little artistic license. Aside from that, was  everything all right?
TUVOK: The hologram was adequate, but no substitute for my wife.
PARIS: Of course not.
EMH:  Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
SEVEN: There isn't one, yet.
EMH: The mess hall is three decks up. In case you've forgotten, I've  lost my appetite. Permanently.
SEVEN: That doesn't mean you're incapable of enjoying a meal. Foie gras  with truffles. An ancient Earth delicacy. Chateau d'Yquem. According to  the culinary database, the ideal accompaniment.
EMH: Not your usual fare.
SEVEN: It's come to my attention that nutritional supplements don't  fully meet my needs.
EMH: I see.
SEVEN: I thought we could share this experience. I'll describe the meal  to you. The tastes, the sensations. Perhaps you can enjoy it  vicariously.
EMH: What about the wine? It doesn't exactly agree with you.
SEVEN: If I become sick, I won't have far to go. To shared experiences.
EMH: Hear, hear.
