EMH: Questa o quella per me pari sono a quant'altre d'intorno mi vedo, del mio core  l'impero non cedo meglio ad una che ad altre belta. La costoro  avvenenza e qual dono di che ilfato ne infiora la vita. S'oggi questa  mi torna gradita, forse un'altra, forse un'altra.
EMH: Captain. Computer, pause music. I didn't wake you, did I?
JANEWAY: That's all right, Doctor. Fifteen minutes of sleep is really  all I need. Coffee, black. Maybe you should pay a little more attention  to flying and a little less to singing.
EMH: As a hologram, I can handle a variety of tasks at once. In  addition to piloting the Flyer, I'm writing a paper on the  physiological stresses of long duration space flight, and taking  holo-images of this  Mutara class nebula.
JANEWAY: With a hologram on board, who needs a crew?
EMH: I'd never admit this to anyone else, but there was a time when I  would have given anything to be flesh and blood. But I've come to  realise that being a hologram is far superior.
JANEWAY: Really?
EMH: No offence. I'll always enjoy the company of organics. In fact,  I'm delighted you were able to attend this medical symposium with me.  It's been a pleasure spending time with you. Actually, I was hoping we  might do this sort of thing more often.
EMH: Hmm. We're passing through a  subspace eddy.
JANEWAY: It could be the wake of another ship.
EMH: No, there's nothing on sensors. It's probably just the gravimetric  shear from the nebula.
JANEWAY: Maybe I should take the controls.
EMH: Sit down and relax, Captain. You've got a hologram at the helm.
TORRES:  The plasma surges have to be coming from one of these relays.  Try realigning the deuterium manifolds.
PARIS : Paris to Torres.
TORRES: Go ahead.
PARIS : Can you pull yourself away from engineering for a few  minutes? I've got a shuttle down here with faulty deflector array.
TORRES: I'm a little busy right now.
PARIS : It's kind of urgent.
TORRES: What's this?
PARIS: Well, I thought you'd enjoy a  romantic lunch under the glow of a red giant.
TORRES: Oh, you replicated potato salad.
PARIS: With extra paprika, just the way you like it.
TORRES: This is so sweet. But I can't.
PARIS: Sure you can. I've already cleared it with Chakotay.
TORRES: I told the captain I'd have the dilithium matrix recalibrated  before she got back.
PARIS: You know, this might be our last chance to be alone for the next  eighteen years.
TORRES: I will make some time before the baby comes, I promise. Oh, I've  got to get back.
KIM:  Report.
AYALA: There's some kind of pulse being directed at our transceiver  array. It's coming from the Delta Flyer.
KIM: Hail them.
AYALA: No response.
KIM: Looks like they've encoded the pulse with a comm. signal.
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY : Sorry about the image, Ensign. Our comm.  system's been damaged. The only way I could send you a signal was  through the main deflector.
KIM: Are you and the Doctor all right?
JANEWAY : We're fine. Tell Commander Chakotay to meet me  in my ready room as soon as we've docked. Janeway out.
CHAKOTAY:  Harry tells me the Flyer took some damage.
JANEWAY: That's an understatement. We almost didn't make it back in one  piece. They're called the R'Kaal. Their technology is decades ahead of  ours. Transphasic warp drive, multi-spectral cloaking systems. They  could destroy this ship before our sensors knew they were there.
CHAKOTAY: They sound like people we should avoid.
JANEWAY: I wish that were possible. They control thousands of parsecs  from here to the edge of the Beta Quadrant. They're ecological  extremists. They believe conventional warp engines damage subspace, so  they've outlawed warp travel through their territory.
CHAKOTAY: Then we should reverse course and find a way around.
JANEWAY: That's the problem. We've already been in their space for  three weeks without knowing it.
CHAKOTAY: You'd think they'd mark their borders a little more clearly.
JANEWAY: As punishment, their law demands that our ship be dismantled.
CHAKOTAY: Obviously we're not going to let that happen.
JANEWAY: I spent three hours explaining our situation to their Supreme  Archon, a thoroughly unpleasant man. I convinced him to spare Voyager,  but at a price. We're going to rendezvous with their armada and  surrender our warp core at a class M planet where they've agreed to let  us settle.
CHAKOTAY: Settle?
JANEWAY: I didn't make this decision lightly, Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: We have to bring the senior staff in on this. We can find a  way to evade their ships, or adapt our sensors to their cloaking  technology.
JANEWAY: We could try that, and we might make it past their armada, but  we could lose a lot of people in the process. Maybe the entire ship.
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, there's got to be another way.
JANEWAY: I'm tired, Chakotay. Tired of casualty reports, of continually  risking my people on the slim chance that we'll make it home in one  piece.
CHAKOTAY: We've found our way out of worse situations.
JANEWAY: Set a course.
CHAKOTAY: What am I supposed to tell the crew?
JANEWAY: For now, I'd like to keep this between us.
CHAKOTAY: It's not like you to keep your people in the dark
JANEWAY: I'll make an announcement when the time is right. Dismissed.
TORRES:  Captain.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to interrupt, but I could use your input on a  hypothetical scenario.
TORRES: Of course.
JANEWAY: If we were to eject the core, could it be towed safely at warp?
TORRES: In theory. But a tractor beam might destabilise the containment  field. You'd be risking a breach.
JANEWAY: Could you compensate for that?
TORRES: You could configure the tractor emitters to generate a  resonance pulse. That should stabilise the field.
JANEWAY: Can you make those modifications to the Delta Flyer's tractor  emitters?
TORRES: I suppose.
JANEWAY: How long would it take?
TORRES: Er, a few hours.
JANEWAY: Get started.
TORRES: I thought this was a hypothetical scenario.
JANEWAY: We should be prepared, just in case.
TORRES: In case of what?
JANEWAY: Let me know as soon as you're finished.
TORRES: Torres to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY : Go ahead.
TORRES: Have you got a minute?
CHAKOTAY:  B'Elanna tells me you ordered some modifications to the Flyer.
JANEWAY: That's right.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I misunderstood. I thought the plan was to hand over  the core when we reached the planet. Are we taking it somewhere else?
JANEWAY: I heard you the first time.
CHAKOTAY: Captain?
JANEWAY: You've already made your concerns clear, Commander, but  there's been a slight change of plans.
CHAKOTAY: Were you going to tell me? Kathryn, what's going on?
JANEWAY: I don't feel well. I've got a headache. I'm going to my  quarters and I'd prefer not to be disturbed. You have the bridge.
JANEWAY: Not  now.
TUVOK: I beg your pardon, Captain?
JANEWAY: Carry on, Commander.
CHAKOTAY:  Chakotay to the Doctor.
EMH : Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Report to Sickbay immediately.
CHAKOTAY: Something wrong with the turbolifts?
EMH: You did say immediately. How can I help you?
CHAKOTAY: I'm concerned about the Captain. She doesn't seem to be  feeling well.
EMH: What's wrong?
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure. She went to her quarters with a headache.
EMH: I'll bring her an analgesic.
CHAKOTAY: I was wondering if this could be related to your encounter  with the aliens.
EMH: You think they harmed her?
CHAKOTAY: You tell me. What did they do to her?
EMH: I'm not sure, exactly. The aliens took my programme offline as  soon as they boarded the Flyer. The captain reactivated me a few hours  later and told me she'd been interrogated. Naturally, I examined her to  make sure she was all right.
CHAKOTAY: Did you find anything unusual?
EMH: I suppose I'm violating doctor-patient confidentiality by telling  you this but, she was fine.
CHAKOTAY: I'd like you to give her a more thorough examination.
EMH: Gladly. But you know how she feels about physicals.
CHAKOTAY: You can be very persuasive, Doctor. Contact me as soon as  you're done.
EMH: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY:  Anything interesting on sensors this morning?
SEVEN: Nothing extraordinary. A red giant and two G type stars, a  Golorian trading vessel bearing one five six mark four.
CHAKOTAY: If there were a fleet of cloaked ships in the vicinity, could  you devise a way to detect them?
SEVEN: A cloaked fleet would generate significant subspace distortions.  Why do you ask?
KIM : Commander, we're receiving a transmission.
CHAKOTAY: Source?
KIM : I'm having trouble pinpointing it. Should I notify the captain?
CHAKOTAY: No, she didn't want to be disturbed. Route the call here.
CHAKOTAY: I'm  Commander Chakotay of the starship Voyager.
LOTH : This is Supreme Archon Loth of the R'Kaal Imperium.  Why haven't you ejected your warp core as your captain agreed?
CHAKOTAY: We're en route to the planet you specified. We can't jettison  the core until we get there.
LOTH : If we don't receive the core within ten hours, my  armada will destroy your ship. This is your only warning.
CHAKOTAY: Work with Harry. I want to know the source of that  transmission.
SEVEN: Understood.
EMH: Ah,  Commander. You'll be relieved to know I've given the captain a clean  bill of health.
CHAKOTAY: Did you run a neurological scan?
EMH: Mmm hmm. Her brain activity and cognitive functions are completely  normal. As far as I can tell she's perfectly fit, physically and  mentally.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Doctor.
CHAKOTAY:  Chakotay to the captain. Computer, locate Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Computer, belay that. My quarters, now.
JANEWAY:  Really, Chakotay. Sending the Doctor to check up on me.
CHAKOTAY: I'm concerned.
JANEWAY: Then why didn't you come to me directly? I thought we trusted  each other.
CHAKOTAY: So did I. Something happened on that away mission that you're  not telling me.
JANEWAY: I've told you everything you need to know.
CHAKOTAY: You've consulted me on every major decision over the last  seven years, except this one. Why?
JANEWAY: There are some decisions a captain has to make on her own.
CHAKOTAY: I understand that, but every instinct tells me what you're  doing is wrong. Don't you remember what happened on Lesik Prime?
JANEWAY: I don't see how that's relevant.
CHAKOTAY: I think you do. Fifteen years ago, you were the lieutenant  who was kept in the dark. If you hadn't questioned your captain's  orders, the entire away team would have been lost.
JANEWAY: This situation's entirely different.
CHAKOTAY: You never told me that story. I made it up. Chakotay to Tuvok.
JANEWAY: I've erected a dampening field around these quarters. I'm  sorry, Commander.
JANEWAY:  Computer, secure the doors and establish a level five dampening field  around the morgue.
JANEWAY:  I can't do my job with the two of you constantly talking in my head.
EMH: No. I'm not doing anything else until I speak with the captain.  Fine. What's your encryption frequency?
EMH : Captain, are you all right?
JANEWAY: Doctor, listen to me. Under no circumstances are you to eject  the warp core.
EMH : If I don't do what they ask, they'll kill you.
JANEWAY: I'm giving you a direct order. Stop what you're doing.
EMH : I'm sorry, Captain. I can't obey that order.
JANEWAY: Doctor, I want you to go to the bridge right now and alert  Commander Tuvok.
ZET: Put her behind the forcefield.
ZET: We have another assignment for  you. I've been going over the schematics of your vessel, and I'm  intrigued by this bio-neural circuitry. I want you to bring us a series  of these gel packs.
EMH : The gel packs are integrated into the ship's systems.  I can't just remove them without someone noticing.
ZET: You've proven yourself to be very resourceful, Doctor. You'll find  a way. Remember, we're monitoring your perceptual subroutines. We can  see and hear everything.
TUVOK  : Tuvok to Chakotay.
ZET : You know what will happen to her if you alert your  crew.
EMH:  Go ahead.
TUVOK:  Are you all right, Commander?
EMH:  Just a scratchy throat. The Doctor's treating me now.
TUVOK:  Could you come to the Shuttlebay when you're finished?
EMH:  I'll be right there. Chakotay out. Computer, access the holodeck  database and locate Commander Chakotay's holographic template. Download  the physical parameters into my programme.
TUVOK: I've completed the diagnostic as you requested. The Flyer's  comm. system is functioning normally.
TUVOK: The Captain did report that it was damaged
TUVOK  : During the attack by the R'Kaal.
TUVOK : No.
ZET: Get out of there before you arouse suspicion.
NAR:  You're doing a wonderful job, Doctor. I'm just giving him a little  encouragement.
ZET: That's why I'm in command.
NAR: If all goes well, we should have the warp core in less than six  hours. He's making excellent progress.
JANEWAY: That's exactly what he wants you to believe.
ZET: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: Did you really think you could outsmart a hologram?
NAR: Everything appears to be normal.
JANEWAY: How do you know you're not looking at a holographic  projection? The Doctor isn't just a physician. His Emergency Command  subroutines contain thousands of tactical scenarios. I wouldn't be  surprised if Voyager was already on its way here. You do have an  option. Leave me behind in an escape pod and I'll forget any of this  ever happened.
NAR: Maybe we should let her go.
ZET: Are you delusional? It took months to plan this. We've already  found a buyer for the warp core. Now you want to abandon everything?
NAR: It's better than being sent to a rehabilitation centre.
ZET: We made our choice when we stole this vessel. I am not going back  to the Hierarchy, and neither are you. She's just trying to trick you.  A month from now, we'll be soaking in the mud baths of Eblar Prime.  Trust me.
EMH:   Janeway to Torres.
TORRES : Torres here.
EMH:
TORRES:  I'm still working on those modifications you asked for. I'll send  somebody else.
EMH:
TORRES : I'll be there in five minutes.
EMH:
VORIK:  Did you forget something, Lieutenant?
VORIK: Locker gamma five.
VORIK: On the upper level.
PARIS:  You left me no choice.
PARIS: Oh? Are we calling each other by our rank now?
PARIS: Oh, sorry. Well, I thought since you didn't have time for lunch  under the stars, maybe you'd settle for the glow of the warp core.
PARIS: Well, I'm sure the baby is famished.
PARIS: One drumstick isn't going to kill you. Besides, I won't tell the  Doctor if you won't.
PARIS: All right, nineteen hours. But if you're not there, I'm sending  security after you.
PARIS: Sweetheart? Well, aren't you getting affectionate in your third  trimester.
PARIS: I'll see you later.
KIM : Kim to Chakotay. Can you come to Astrometrics?
KIM: The  transmission was encoded with a false subspace signature.
SEVEN: The signal didn't originate on another vessel. It came from  inside Voyager.
KIM: We traced it to holodeck two.
KIM: I'm on my way to check the access logs.
KIM:  Whoever sent this transmission knew how to cover his tracks. The  holodeck logs have been erased.
KIM: I might be able to find some residual phototonic displacement.  There we go. I think I can clarify the image with a recursive  algorithm.
KIM: Our alien's a hologram. The question is, who programmed him?
KIM: Wait a minute. I'm picking up two holographic signatures. It looks  like a second image was superimposed over an existing template. I'll  see if I can isolate the first image.
ZET:  Doctor, what are you doing?
EMH : If you don't mind
EMH:  I've had a stressful day.
EMH  : I'm extremely busy, Commander.
TUVOK : This will only take a moment. I've been reviewing  the communication logs. There's a discrepancy I was hoping you could  explain.
TUVOK:  At the precise moment the Flyer transmitted a deflector pulse, you  apparently accessed Voyager's holographic database.
EMH: I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.
TUVOK: Your access code was used to download the captain's physical  parameters.
EMH: Exactly what are you insinuating, Commander?
TUVOK: Perhaps we should have a word with the captain.
EMH: Fine. 
TUVOK: Computer, deactivate the EMH.
COMPUTER: EMH protocols are offline.
TUVOK: Security to Sickbay. Remain where you are.
EMH: You haven't forgotten I'm a hologram, have you?
TUVOK:  If necessary, I'll disable all of  your holo-emitters.
EMH: Computer, transfer the EMH to  the mobile emitter.
TUVOK: All hands, Red Alert. Security teams, apprehend the Doctor.
TUVOK:  Computer, open the holodeck doors.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Access to the holodeck has been restricted.
TUVOK: Security override, Tuvok sigma four.
TUVOK: Computer, end programme.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck controls are offline.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Engineering. Shut down power
TUVOK  : To Holodeck two.
TORRES: It looks like the Doctor's rerouted the power relays. It'll  take a minute to bypass them.
TUVOK:  Doctor, I've reconfigured my phaser to disrupt your holo-matrix.  Surrender yourself now.
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge.
TUVOK  : Can you locate the Doctor on the internal sensors?
PARIS: I'm not reading him. He must've masked his signature somehow.
TUVOK : Try scanning for the polydeutonic alloy in his emitter.  Shut down all
TUVOK:  Turbolifts and transporters.
PARIS : Acknowledged.
TORRES: I'm not detecting an overload.
TORRES: All right, everybody out. Now! Move it!
TORRES: I might be able to stabilise the containment field.
TORRES: You'd better be right behind me.
PARIS: Paris to Torres. I'm picking up the Doctor's emitter in your  section.
TORRES: Where?
PARIS: Right next to the warp core.
COMPUTER: All command codes have been transferred to the ECH.
EMH: Prepare to eject the warp core. Authorization ECH omega four two.
TORRES: Doctor, don't do this.
COMPUTER: Warp ejection system enabled.
EMH: Computer, eject the core.
EMH: Computer, lock on to my mobile emitter  and transport me to the Delta Flyer.
COMPUTER: Transporters are offline.
PARIS:  Tuvok, we just lost main power
PARIS  : And internal sensors are down.
TUVOK: The Doctor has entered Jefferies tube one one alpha. Send a  security team to the shuttlebay.
TUVOK: Lieutenant?
TUVOK: Come with me, Doctor.
PARIS:  Tuvok, someone's launching the Flyer.
PARIS  : Tuvok!
NAR: Ow!
JANEWAY:  You might try disconnecting the phase discriminator. 
NAR: Ha! I've rebuilt dozens of these units, but I've never seen this  configuration before. Do you know how I can stabilise the ion flow?
JANEWAY: That looks like the charge inverter.
NAR: Thank you.
JANEWAY: You're welcome. Your ship must need a lot of replacement  parts.
NAR: Oh, those aren't for this ship. I've been collecting and repairing  spare components for years. This is from an old impulse drive. Would  you believe I found it sitting in a waste depository? I'll be able to  find a buyer now that it's working.
JANEWAY: These parts could be worth a small fortune.
NAR: That's exactly what I think. I'm going to use my quarter of the  profits to establish an outpost specialising in obsolete engine  components. I'm certain there's a demand for them.
JANEWAY: My Chief Engineer is always looking for spare parts. She might  be interested in acquiring your entire inventory.
ZET: Captain. Tut, tut, tut. You're not trying to take advantage of my subordinate,  are you? No one's ever going to buy this junk. It's almost as useless  as you. There's a ship approaching.
EMH:  This is the Delta Flyer. I've got the warp core
EMH  : But you're not getting it until you release the captain.
EMH: Are  you insane? You almost destabilised the core. Both of our ships  would've been destroyed!
ZET:  This isn't a negotiation. Release your tractor beam, now.
EMH: All  right.
NAR: It's in the cargo hold.
ZET: Lower your shields and we'll beam your captain to you.
EMH:  Ready.
EMH: We had an agreement!
ZET: To spare your captain. As you can see, she's still alive.
JANEWAY: Let the Doctor go. I'm the more valuable hostage.
ZET: Actually, you're not. We'll leave you in the Vinry system. The  inhabitants are mostly harmless.  The Doctor will be working for us now.
EMH: I'll do no such thing.
ZET: I'm sure you'll feel differently after I make a few adjustments to  your programme.
NAR: I had no idea he was going to do this. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: I hope you realise you've stranded Voyager in the Delta Quadrant.
EMH: What did you expect me to do, let them kill you?
JANEWAY: I expected you to follow my orders.
EMH: You might as well have been ordering me to put a phaser to your  head. Voyager can survive without a warp core, but not without a captain.
JANEWAY: Now it doesn't have either.
PARIS:  They're just unconscious. Paris to Tuvok. I found them.
TUVOK:  It is logical to assume the Captain never returned from the away  mission.
CHAKOTAY: Do you have any idea where the Flyer is?
TUVOK: The Doctor masked his ion trail.
TORRES : Engineering to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
TORRES:  We're ready to restart the impulse reactors.
CHAKOTAY : Acknowledged.
TUVOK:  It's playing on every comm. channel on the ship.
CHAKOTAY: Computer, pause music.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
CHAKOTAY: Didn't the Doctor play this at his recital last month?
TUVOK: Yes. And as I recall, he performed the piece flawlessly.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe the recording was damaged by the power loss.
TUVOK: Or perhaps the Doctor altered the music deliberately.
CHAKOTAY: Why would he do that?
SEVEN: I  performed a Fourier analysis on the recording. The harmonics have been  modified.
KIM: It could be a comm. frequency.
SEVEN: Unlikely. There's no carrier wave.
PARIS: I could be wrong but, it looks like a warp signature.
KIM: The power utilisation curve would be about right.
CHAKOTAY: Try scanning for it.
SEVEN: I'm detecting a matching signature. Distance, six point seven  light years.
TUVOK: We can't follow them at impulse.
CHAKOTAY: You and Tom take a shuttle.
EMH:  What are you doing?
JANEWAY: If I can amplify your matrix, I might be able to disrupt the  forcefield.
EMH: I'm sorry I put us in this position, Captain.
JANEWAY: You said you wanted us to spend more time together.
EMH: This isn't what I had in mind. Maybe, if we get back to the ship,  we could try socialising a little more.
JANEWAY: This really isn't the place to be talking about this. Besides,  I don't do a lot of socialising.
EMH: You have meals with Commander Chakotay, and you play Velocity with  Seven.
JANEWAY: We're going to have to discuss this later.
NAR: I need to upload your first assignment.
EMH: You want me to infiltrate the Hierarchy's surveillance complex?
ZET: The data stored there is worth a hundred warp cores.
EMH: How do you expect me to get past the security perimeter?
ZET: I'm glad you asked.
NAR: I've given you the rank of a Class One Overseer. You'll be able to  walk into Central Command without anyone noticing. I've also uploaded  several other holographic templates you might find useful.
JANEWAY: What's wrong?
NAR: I'm not certain.
ZET: The compression algorithms are breaking down.
NAR: I told you his programme couldn't handle that much data.
PARIS:  I'm detecting a human lifesign aboard. And a holographic signature.
TUVOK: The vessel's weapons are polaron-based, and they have  auto-regenerative shielding.
PARIS: We still have the element of surprise.
JANEWAY:  If you don't get him back to Voyager his matrix will be permanently  damaged.
NAR: He won't be any use to us if he decompiles.
NAR: Someone's boarded the Delta Flyer. They're moving away.
ZET: Fire at both vessels.
TUVOK:  Now, Mister Paris.
NAR: The  shield generator isn't going to last. If we give them what they want,  maybe they'll leave.
ZET: Prepare to jettison their warp core.
NAR: What are you doing?
ZET: Arming a torpedo. If we detonate their core the blast wave should  give us enough time to escape.
NAR: That would kill them.
TUVOK: Lieutenant, lock a tractor beam onto the core and get it back to  Voyager.
PARIS : Acknowledged.
ZET: Nar, get this hologram off me.
NAR: Guess this wasn't so useless after all.
NAR: Are you still interested in acquiring my inventory?
TORRES:  Computer, transfer the EMH back into the holodeck buffer.
JANEWAY: Can you stabilise his matrix?
SEVEN: Not until we purge the excess subroutines.
TORRES: There's more than a thousand teraquads of new data in here.
PARIS: How is he?
JANEWAY: We're not sure yet.
EMH: Captain, if I don't survive, I need you to do something for me.
JANEWAY: You're going to be all right.
EMH: If I'm not, when you reach Earth I want you to donate my emitter  to the Daystrom Institute. They may be able to replicate it someday so  that other holograms can know the freedom I've enjoyed. I've had  something on my conscience for a long time. After I was first  activated, I kept a record of what I considered to be your most  questionable command decisions. It's in my personal database. I hope  you'll delete the file without reading it. Mister Tuvok, I violated the  most sacred trust between a physician and his patient. I told Mister  Neelix about the cutaneous eruption you developed on your. That was  indiscreet. I hope you can forgive me. Ensign, at your recital last  month, I told Lieutenant Torres that your saxophone playing reminded me  of a wounded targ. I should've put it more delicately. I'm sorry.  Seven.
SEVEN: You should remain still.
EMH: You have no idea how difficult it's been, hiding my true feelings  all these years, averting my eyes during your regular maintenance  exams.
EMH: I know you could never  have the same feelings for me but I want you to know the truth. I love  you, Seven.
SEVEN: Your cognitive algorithms are malfunctioning.
EMH: Goodbye, my friends. Speak well of me.
JANEWAY: Is he
TORRES: No, I've got him.
EMH: What happened?
TORRES: I deleted the extraneous subroutines.
EMH: I'm not going to decompile?
JANEWAY: You'll probably outlive us all.
PARIS: Doc, anything else you'd like to confess?
EMH:  Captain, do you, do you need medical attention?
JANEWAY: No. You've been keeping to yourself lately. Your friends are  worried about you.
EMH: After my deathbed confession, I wasn't sure I had any friends  left. I overstepped my bounds in documenting your command decisions. It  happened a long time ago, before I considered myself to be a part of  your crew.
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm not here to make you grovel. I'm here to punish you  for your insubordinate behaviour.
EMH: I understand.
JANEWAY: You're hereby denied the use of your mobile emitter for six  days. Since you haven't left Sickbay for a week, we'll call it time  served.
EMH: I appreciate the gesture, Captain, but I've got a lot of work to  catch up on.
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to hear that. I was hoping you might be free for a  cup of coffee on the holodeck. I know a little sidewalk café in Buenos  Aires. You said you wanted us to socialise more.
EMH: I suppose Mister Paris can finish this.
JANEWAY: Now, when you're on the holodeck with the captain, there are  two rules you have to follow.
EMH: I understand.
JANEWAY: First, leave your rank at the door.
EMH: Not a problem. The second?
JANEWAY: No opera.
