CHAKOTAY: Where are you headed?
TORRES: The bridge.
CHAKOTAY: Mind if I walk with you?
TORRES: Not at all.
CHAKOTAY: So, how's it going?
TORRES: Not bad, I guess.
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok still giving you a hard time?
TORRES: No more than usual.
CHAKOTAY: I don't know about you, but when I think about spending  seventy years on the same ship with that guy, it gives me a headache. I  get the impression a lot of the crew agrees with me. Maquis and  Starfleet.
CHAKOTAY:  Bridge. So, what do you think?
TORRES: About what?
CHAKOTAY: About what I've been saying. That a lot of the crew aren't  too happy with our Chief of Security. And for that matter, I don't  think Captain Janeway's winning any popularity contests either. Don't  you agree?
TORRES: Why do I get the feeling that you're testing me?
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say I'm interested in your opinion.
TORRES: Why?
CHAKOTAY: You're a good officer. I like you. And I wouldn't want to see  you get hurt.
TORRES: Computer, halt turbolift. Look, what's this all about?
CHAKOTAY: There're going to be some changes around here. All of the  Maquis are in line, and about twenty five of the Starfleet crew are  with us.
TORRES: Are you saying there's going to be a mutiny?
CHAKOTAY: And when the shooting starts, I'm going to need to know which  side you're on.
JANEWAY:  Well, Commander, Voyager's all yours.
CHAKOTAY: There's a first time for everything, I guess. Don't worry,  Captain, I'll keep your ship safe and sound.
JANEWAY: I'm sure you will.
PARIS : Shuttlebay to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Mister Paris.
PARIS : The shuttle's ready to go whenever you are.
JANEWAY: On my way.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I've been thinking. Are you sure you don't want to  take Lieutenant Tuvok with you, just in case the Rukani turn out to be  less friendly than they seem?
TUVOK: I assure you, Commander. I have made thorough preparations for  the Captain's safety during her away mission. You, on the other hand,  are still adapting to your duties as First Officer. Under the  circumstances, I believe my time will be better spent assisting you in  your effort to justify the trust the Captain has placed in you.
JANEWAY: I appreciate your concern for my safety, Mister Chakotay, but  Tuvok's right. Lieutenant Paris and I will be just fine. I'll see you  in twenty four hours.
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, I want you to keep close tabs on the Captain's  shuttle. Let's make sure she doesn't run into any trouble.
TUVOK: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Ensign, let's shut down those transporters and start that  diagnostic we've been putting off.
KIM: Sir, are you sure we shouldn't wait for the Captain to get back?
TUVOK: Ensign Kim, you have been given a direct order. Do as the  Commander tells you.
KIM: Aye, sir.
CHAKOTAY: Have you finished upgrading the internal sensors, Ensign?
TORRES: I'm working on it, sir.
CHAKOTAY: I hope so.
CHAKOTAY: Wait here.
TUVOK: Is something wrong, sir?
CHAKOTAY: No, it's just tomorrow's duty roster.
TUVOK: Sir, Captain Janeway's shuttle has gone to warp.
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Tuvok. Chakotay to all hands. Let's do it.
TUVOK: Sir?
KIM: Red alert! Security to the Bridge!
CHAKOTAY: You're wasting your time, Harry. All my teams have taken  control of Security, Engineering and all key systems.
KIM: You'll never get away with this. People will fight back.
CHAKOTAY: That's going to be a little difficult. All your off-duty  Starfleet friends have been locked down in quarters.
CHAKOTAY: I guess you've made your choice.
JONAS : Jonas to Chakotay.
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead.
JONAS : They're putting up a fight on deck two. We could use some  help.
CHAKOTAY: Carlson, O'Donnell, get these people to the brig. Ayala, take  the conn and move us out of com range of Janeway's shuttle. You're with  me.
CHAKOTAY:  Deck two. Thanks for watching my back in there.
TORRES: Right.
CHAKOTAY: Are you okay?
TORRES: To tell you the truth, shooting Harry got me a little rattled.
CHAKOTAY: He's only stunned. We're not going to kill anybody today,  unless it's absolutely necessary. Just stay close.
CHAKOTAY:  Stay low.
TORRES: They've got us pinned down.
CHAKOTAY: We'll just have to shoot our way past them. Ready?
TORRES: Seska!
SESKA: It's just like old times, isn't it?
CHAKOTAY: Thanks for the help.
SESKA: We've got to get moving. Some of Janeway's people are trying to  set up a command centre in the mess hall.
SESKA: I wouldn't do that if I were you. This phaser's set on wide  beam. I could take you all in one shot.
CHAKOTAY: Everybody, drop your weapons.
NEELIX: You heard the man. Drop your weapons. Don't look so surprised,  Commander. I know a winner when I see one. I'm with you.
SESKA: Do you want me to shoot him?
CHAKOTAY: We're still going to need a cook. Chakotay to Engineering.  What's your status?
CREWMAN : Engineering is secure.
CHAKOTAY: Transporter rooms one and two, status.
CREWMAN : Transporter room one is under control.
CREWWOMAN : Transporter room two is secure.
CHAKOTAY: Shuttlebay, status.
CREWMAN : Shuttlebay is secured, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: I'll take care of the prisoners here. You two get some help  and start rounding up the personnel that are still locked down in  quarters. Bring them to Cargo Bay one.
SESKA: We did it.
CHAKOTAY: Just like old times.
SESKA:  You did a good job today.
TORRES: Thanks.
SESKA: Just make sure you keep it up.
TORRES: What's that supposed to mean?
SESKA: It means I'm not as easy to win over as Chakotay. Come on! Let's  go.
SESKA: Wait here.
KES: Seska, what's going on?
SESKA: Move it.
KES: Why are we being treated like prisoners?
SESKA: No talking.
SESKA:  Over there, with the rest of them.
KES: What are you going to do with us?
SESKA: I said, no talking!
TORRES: Hey, hey, hey. Take it easy.
SESKA: It told you it was a mistake letting Starfleet people in on  this.
CHAKOTAY: Now is not the time, Seska. Take a good look around you.  You're under armed guard. You may also notice that your senior officers  aren't here. They're in the brig. They'll be put off the ship at the  first habitable planet we come to. All except Janeway and Paris, who  will arrive at their rendezvous coordinates to find that Voyager's not  there. In short, I've taken control of the ship. I don't blame any of  you for the mistakes of your leaders, so I'm giving you a choice. You  can be put off the ship with your superiors or you can do what Neelix  and some of your other crew members have already done and join me. If  you do, you'll be part of a crew that's going to do whatever it takes  to get us home as fast as possible. Under my command, we won't let  almighty Federation principles get in the way of opportunities the way  Janeway did when she destroyed the array that could have gotten us  home. And we won't be wasting precious time stopping to investigate  every insignificant anomaly that we come across. What we will do is use  any means necessary to acquire technology that can shorten our journey.  To hell with Starfleet regulations. You have  fifteen minutes to make up your minds.
PARIS: B'Elanna, what's going on here?
TORRES: Computer, freeze programme. Are you in the habit of just  walking in on people's private holodeck time?
PARIS: Well, it's not as if I caught you dancing the rumba with a naked  Bolian. We had a lunch date, remember?
TORRES: Is it lunch time already? I must have lost track of the time.
PARIS: Well, I expected to find you shooting pool at Sandrine's, not  hanging out with Seska. What sort of programme is this anyway?
TORRES: It's really something. I was doing a routine purge of the  database, you know, taking out old files that were taking up space, and  I found this holonovel. It's a kind of 'what if' story, all about a  Maquis mutiny. It's completely compelling and believable. I guess it's  because it's all about us.
PARIS: Who wrote it?
TORRES: Now, that is the big mystery. Whoever the author is has gone to  a lot of trouble to keep his identity a secret. It's been encrypted.
PARIS: Why do you suppose someone would try so hard to be anonymous?
TORRES: Well, think about it. Whoever plays this programme takes on the  role of a Starfleet security officer who gets approached by Chakotay to  help the Maquis take over the ship. I mean, it's pretty inflammatory.
PARIS: You think we should tell the Captain?
TORRES: Probably.
PARIS: It would be pretty hard for us to give her a full report if we  don't know how the story ends.
TORRES: Excellent point.
PARIS: Great. Can you reset it for me?
TORRES: You? I was just getting to the good part.
PARIS: Oh, come on, B'Elanna. Be a sport. I've got to be back on duty  in less than an hour. Besides, isn't half the fun of a holonovel having  someone to talk it over with?
TORRES: All right. You owe me one.
PARIS: The bridge.
PARIS: I was kind of hoping you would.
PARIS: Couldn't be better.
PARIS: Oh, doesn't he always?
PARIS: Not to mention an upset stomach.
PARIS: I hear you're planning a mutiny.
PARIS: Let's just say there are rumours.
PARIS: Of course not. I just wanted you to know that whatever happens,  I'm with you.
PARIS: I'm serious. Just tell me what you want me to do.
PARIS: I understand.
PARIS: Yes, sir.
PARIS: Tuvok, get down!
PARIS: It's not over yet, Chakotay.
PARIS:  Sir, we have to do something.
PARIS: Escape. Retake the ship.
PARIS: What about trying it now?
PARIS: We can't just sit here and do nothing.
PARIS: How long is this observing business going to take? It's been  over an hour already. I'm getting bored.
PARIS: A week? Who wrote this stuff?
PARIS: Enjoy the wait.
PARIS: I don't need fifteen minutes. I'm with you right now.
PARIS:  So by the time I got around to joining Chakotay's little band of rebels
TORRES: Ah ha.
PARIS: He was so suspicious of my motives that he assigned me to  lubricate the warp plasma manifolds.
TORRES: You should have tried going along with the mutiny from the  beginning. It's much more fun.
PARIS: Oh, believe me, next time I will.
NEELIX: I couldn't help overhearing. You two are talking about the new  holonovel. I tried sending an encoded message to Captain Janeway's  shuttle to warn her about the mutiny. But Chakotay caught me, phasered  me, and the programme reset. Next time, I'm going to pretend to go  along with the conspirators and then stage a counterstrike.
PARIS: I thought we were going to keep this our little secret.
TORRES: Don't look at me. I didn't tell him.
NEELIX: I heard about it from the Doctor.
PARIS: The Doctor?
TORRES: I may have let it slip while I was running his weekly  diagnostic.
PARIS: Oh, great. Who else knows about it?
NEELIX: Don't worry about me. My lips are sealed.
KIM: So what's this Ayala tells me about a new holonovel?
PARIS: Get in line, Harry.
PARIS: Do you think we've got a saboteur on board?
PARIS: They're powering phasers.
PARIS: I don't know how, but they've disabled our shields. We're  completely vulnerable.
COMPUTER: Intruder alert on deck eight.
PARIS: It's Paris and Janeway.
PARIS:  Computer, resume programme.
COMPUTER: The holographic simulation has ended.
PARIS: Well, start it up again, right where it left off.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
PARIS: Why not?
COMPUTER: Additional narrative parameters have not been programmed.
PARIS: Are you saying there's no more story?
COMPUTER: Affirmative.
PARIS: This is someone's idea of a practical joke, right?
COMPUTER: Please rephrase the question.
TORRES: There. I've bypassed the security override. Try it now.
PARIS: Computer, identify the author of holographic programme entitled  Insurrection Alpha.
COMPUTER: That information is classified.
TORRES: I've tried every decryption protocol I can think of. Whoever  wrote this is good.
PARIS: Not to mention sadistic. I can't believe we've been left hanging  like this.
NEELIX: Any luck? Me neither. I've discreetly questioned everybody I  thought I could trust. Either nobody knows or nobody's talking.
PARIS: Remember the good old days when it was impossible to keep a  secret on a ship this small?
JANEWAY:  Well, if that takes care of our official agenda, there's another matter  I'd like to discuss. Commander Chakotay informs me there's a new  holonovel that's become quite popular among the crew.
CHAKOTAY: It's been accessed forty seven times by thirty three  different crew members.
JANEWAY: I don't suppose anyone here is familiar with what we're  talking about?
TORRES: Er, actually, er, Captain, I'm the one who found it on the  auxiliary database.
PARIS: I've been running it too.
CHAKOTAY: Anybody else?
JANEWAY: I understand that the author of this little opus has chosen to  remain anonymous. Perhaps because of the controversial nature of the  story, which depicts Commander Chakotay as the leader of a Maquis  mutiny. Well, now that the cat's out of the bag, I want each of you to  talk to your staff and find out who our anonymous author is.
TUVOK: That won't be necessary, Captain. I am the author of the  programme in question.
PARIS: You, Tuvok?
JANEWAY: I never knew you had literary aspirations.
NEELIX: Not to mention talent. What a story!
TUVOK: I'm afraid there's been a misunderstanding. The programme is not  a holonovel. It is a tactical training scenario. When you first invited  the Maquis to join our crew, I believed that mutiny was a very real  possibility. With that in mind, I began to write a training programme  for junior security officers to prepare them for such an eventuality.
PARIS: But you never finished it?
TUVOK: No. As the two crews began to work together, I concluded that  the threat of an insurrection was increasingly unlikely. I realised the  programme itself might exacerbate the very conflict I sought to avoid.  Therefore, I deleted the scenario, or so I believed.
JANEWAY: Apparently you didn't account for B'Elanna's exceptional  computer skills.
TUVOK: Nor her somewhat excessive curiosity. I apologise for my  carelessness, Captain.
PARIS: Forget your carelessness. What you should be apologising for is  leaving us all hanging by a thread. You've got to finish the story.
TUVOK: On the contrary, Mister Paris. The programme has the potential  to incite animosity among the crew and must be permanently deleted. I  have no doubt the captain concurs.
JANEWAY: With all due respect, Mister Tuvok, loosen up. You may have  intended this programme to be a tactical training tool, but it looks to  me like it's turned into a bit of harmless fun.
TUVOK: As the Captain of this ship, surely you
JANEWAY: I'm more than just a Captain. I'm the leader of a community,  and communities need entertainment, culture, creative outlets. Since  we're not exactly privy to every new piece of music or holonovel that's  written back home, I think it's only natural that we should start  creating our own.
CHAKOTAY: Besides, Tuvok, if the crew doesn't get an ending, you may  have a real mutiny on your hands.
PARIS: If Tuvok doesn't want to finish the story, I volunteer.
TORRES: Oh?
PARIS: Well, I've always wanted to write a holonovel. I think I could  make it pretty exciting.
JANEWAY: Good. Then it's settled. I for one can't wait to see if  Captain Janeway manages to outwit the conspirators.
PARIS:  Well, if it isn't Mister Anonymous. Come to check up on your  replacement?
TUVOK: Since the captain insists on allowing you to proceed with this  frivolous exercise, I thought you might benefit from the original  probability studies I conducted before beginning the scenario.
PARIS: Well, thanks, Tuvok, but I don't need any probability studies.  I'm just sort of making it up as I go along.
TUVOK: Indeed. I'd be curious to know what you've made up thus far.
PARIS: Well, I was thinking, Paris and Janeway retake the ship, and  then she decides to execute all the conspirators.
TUVOK: That is an entirely implausible plot development. Captain  Janeway would never behave in such an inhumane manner.
PARIS: This isn't real life, Tuvok. It's fiction. Don't get so caught  up in logic.
TUVOK: Logic is an integral part of narrative structure. According to  the Dictates of Poetics by T'hain of Vulcan, a character's actions must  flow inexorably from his or her established traits.
PARIS: Well, I don't know anything about T'hain, but I do know what  makes an interesting story, and that's unexpected plot twists.
TUVOK: If you think I will allow you to turn this programme into a  parody, you are sorely mistaken.
PARIS: Are you saying that you're going to finish it yourself?
TORRES: Artistic differences?
TUVOK: I would hardly call Mister Paris's ideas artistic.
PARIS: Apparently, my instincts don't comply with the Vulcan Dictates  of Poetics.
TORRES: Well, I've got a couple of suggestions that might help. Now, up  until now the story's been nothing but action, which is fine. But what  it needs is a little heart, a little emotion.
TUVOK: We are not writing a romance novel, Lieutenant.
PARIS: We?
TUVOK: I've decided that your efforts would benefit from my  collaboration.
PARIS: Oh, really?
TORRES: Listen, I don't care which one of you is writing this thing.  All I'm saying is that there is room in every good story for a little  bit of passion.
PARIS: You know, maybe you're on to something. I could add a steamy  love scene between the Starfleet conn officer and the Maquis engineer.
TORRES: Oh, that's realistic.
NEELIX: How about a fresh pot of coffee to keep those creative juices  flowing, eh?
PARIS: Thanks, Neelix.
NEELIX: While I'm here.
PARIS: Let me guess. You have a suggestion to make.
NEELIX: Of course not. I would never presume to interfere in the  creative process. It's more of a comment, really, about the Neelix  character.
TUVOK: How surprising.
JANEWAY: He would never betray the Captain the way he does in that  story. No offence, Mister Vulcan, but I don't think you understand my  character very well.
PARIS: Tuvok, did you forget to follow the Dictates of Poetics?
TUVOK: Perhaps we should find someplace quieter to work.
PARIS: Now, that's the first intelligent suggestion I've heard all  evening.
TUVOK: I  believe our first step should be to create a carefully constructed  outline of the remaining chapters.
PARIS: I told you, Tuvok. I'm just making it up as I go.
TUVOK: We cannot proceed without a carefully constructed outline.
PARIS: There you go with that we stuff again. I don't remember agreeing  to let you help me.
TUVOK: Need I remind you that it was I who first began the scenario?
PARIS: And you think I'm compromising your creative vision?
TUVOK: In so many words, yes. And it is my duty to ensure that ship  security is not compromised by your creative vision.
PARIS: You had your chance to finish the story, and you wanted to  delete it.
TUVOK: True, but since that is no longer an option, I am now exercising  my prerogative as the original author.
PARIS: Look, Tuvok, for the last time, I don't need any help.
EMH: Ah,  there you are. I have several brilliant ideas for upcoming chapters of  your holonovel, as well as a list of revisions and dialogue changes  that I believe will improve the earlier installments.
PARIS: I don't believe this.
EMH: No thanks are necessary. In addition, I'm prepared to offer my  expertise in the creation of holographic mise-en-scene.
TUVOK: Computer, override the EMH program's autonomous controls and  transfer him back to Sickbay.
EMH: Now, wait just a min
PARIS: Thanks, Tuvok. Now that I think about it, I'll take it from  here.
TUVOK: You may find that difficult, since I am the only one who can  make additions to the programme.
PARIS: All right, Tuvok. You win. We'll finish the story together.
TUVOK: That is a very rational decision, Mister Paris. Computer,  reinitiate the holographic programme entitled Insurrection Alpha,  security clearance Tuvok four seven seven four.
COMPUTER: The programme has been reinitiated.
PARIS: The first thing we're going to change is that title.
TUVOK: Reformat the holo-matrix for the addition of new interactive  algorithms.
COMPUTER: The holo-matrix has been formatted.
TUVOK: Reopen the narrative parameters file.
KIM:  Captain, we just lost power in both transporter rooms. The com went  down, and the holodeck systems are completely scrambled.
PARIS:  What are we doing in the brig?
TUVOK: I have no idea. We haven't given the computer instructions to  create a location yet.
TUVOK: How do you know that? You're a hologram.
TUVOK: There is no more programme.
PARIS: Revisions?
TUVOK: Computer, end programme.
TUVOK: Holodeck one to Bridge. Emergency transport.
PARIS: I guess we'd better do what she says.
PARIS:  You should never have crossed her, Tuvok.
TUVOK: She has been dead for over a year now. There would have been no  way to predict this turn of events.
PARIS: I guess we should have known Seska wouldn't let a little thing  like death stop her from getting even.
PARIS: Captain?
PARIS: She's a hologram too?
TUVOK: Apparently she believes we're here to help her retake the ship  from the mutineers.
PARIS: I say we play along. We could use all the help we can get  against Seska.
TUVOK: You're forgetting it was Seska who rewrote the scenario. For all  we know, she's programmed Captain Janeway to betray us.
PARIS: I suppose you have a better idea?
TUVOK: The safest course of action is to avoid participation of any  kind. Eventually, the real Captain will discover our predicament and  shut down the programme from the outside.
TUVOK: We have no intention of participating in this exercise.
PARIS: You programmed all this. The malfunctioning phaser, the version  of Chakotay who's attracted to you. None of it's real.
PARIS:  So much for not playing along with Seska's programme.
TUVOK: Are you able to continue?
PARIS: I'll keep up. The question is, where are we going?
TUVOK: I have an idea.
PARIS:  What's the point? This isn't the real Sickbay.
TUVOK: I may be able to use some of this holographic equipment to treat  your wound. Besides, it's as good a place as any to hide from Seska.
PARIS: No emergency, Doc. I'm fine.
PARIS: That's all right, Doc. I'm telling you, I feel fine.
TUVOK: Go!
PARIS: I'm not going to leave you!
TUVOK:  Are you all right, Mister Paris?
PARIS: Oh, just great. Maybe we can go to the mess hall now and let the  holographic Neelix burn my arm with a frying pan.
TUVOK: Your feeble attempt at wit notwithstanding, it does appear that  Seska has reprogrammed the holographic crew to torture us. I suggest we  avoid meeting any more of them.
PARIS: Oh, terrific.
PARIS: I say we try the Jefferies tubes.
TUVOK: I concur.
KIM:  Captain, you're not going to believe this, but Seska caused these  cascade failures.
JANEWAY: Seska? How?
TORRES: What she lacked in loyalty she made up for in ingenuity.  According to the back-up computer logs, she got into Tuvok's scenario  on stardate 48671 about a month before she left the ship. She  programmed it to cause all of these shutdowns the next time Tuvok  reopened the narrative parameters file, which he didn't do until today.
JANEWAY: Can we get them out?
TORRES: Seska laid booby-trapped subroutines everywhere. If we try to  open the holodeck doors, the power grid is rigged to explode.
KIM: And the transporters are still offline.
JANEWAY: You said the narrative parameters file is open now?
KIM: Seska's revised programme is playing out as we speak.
JANEWAY: If Seska can rewrite Tuvok, maybe I can rewrite Seska.
PARIS:  So, Tuvok, anything in the Dictates of Poetics about how to escape from  a ship full of insane holograms?
TUVOK: Your attempts at humour are hardly constructive, Mister Paris.
TUVOK: The controls are jammed. I cannot close the hatch.
PARIS: Tuvok!
PARIS: Where do you suppose this came from?
TUVOK: That is an intriguing question.
PARIS: Do you think Seska's toying with us? Taking us to the brink of  death again, then letting us live so she can keep torturing us?
TUVOK: I prefer a more optimistic interpretation. It is possible our  shipmates outside the holodeck have learned of our predicament and have  found a way to help us by making additions to the programme, such as  that plasma extinguisher.
PARIS: If you want to look on the bright side, I'm certainly not going  to argue with you.
PARIS: If they do know what's going on, why just hand us a plasma  extinguisher? Why not shut down the holo-grid, or change the scenario?
TUVOK: I would imagine Seska has made it very difficult for anyone to  implement more than minor changes.
PARIS: Take a look at this.
PARIS: You were right.
TUVOK: We must follow their instructions.
JANEWAY: Where did they come from?
TORRES: Seska's programme is adding new algorithms to counteract the  changes we're making.
JANEWAY: I need more access to the narrative subroutines.
TORRES: I can't get in.
JANEWAY: You'd better find a way, otherwise Tom and Tuvok aren't going  to make it out of there alive. It looks like Chakotay's taking them to  the holographic cargo bay.
TORRES: Torres to Kim. How are you coming
TORRES  : With those transporters?
KIM: Seska's programme has completely disabled the relay access ports.
KIM  : It's going to take a while to get Tom and Tuvok out of there.
JANEWAY: I guess that means I keep writing.
JANEWAY: I need access to the character algorithms now!
TORRES: I'm on it.
TUVOK: If I'm not mistaken, the Chakotay hologram is undergoing some  sort of character change.
PARIS: Do you think they're trying to help us again?
TUVOK: Don't listen to her, Commander. You've taken the ship. There is  no need to add murder to your list of offences.
TORRES:  It's working.
JANEWAY: Now, if I can just keep modifying the Chakotay hologram.
TORRES: I don't believe it. The programme is reconfiguring the  subprocessors to counter every change we make. No matter what we do, it  rewrites itself so that Tom and Tuvok will die.
JANEWAY: I'm not out of ideas yet.
PARIS: Don't listen to her.
TUVOK: Don't move, Seska.
PARIS: The people the captain and I were visiting while you were busy  taking over the ship. When we realised there was a mutiny in progress,  we called them for a little assistance.
JANEWAY:  Harry, have you got transporters yet?
KIM : Still working on it, Captain.
TUVOK: That is a rather bold statement for someone in your position.
COMPUTER: This ship will self-destruct in sixty seconds.
TUVOK: Computer, belay that order, authorisation Tuvok four seven seven  four.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Voiceprint not recognised.
COMPUTER: Self-destruct in forty five seconds.
TORRES:  I don't know how she rigged it, Captain, but when she ordered the  self-destruct it initiated an overload in the holodeck power relays.  The whole grid is going to blow.
COMPUTER:  Self-destruct in thirty seconds.
TUVOK: I have set this phaser to kill. If you do not deactivate the  self-destruct sequence, I will fire.
COMPUTER: Fifteen seconds to self-destruct. Thirteen, twelve, eleven,  ten, nine
COMPUTER: Self-destruct sequence has been terminated.
TUVOK: Do what she says.
PARIS: Tuvok
TUVOK: That's an order, Mister Paris.
PARIS: Paris to the Rukani vessel. Thank you for your assistance, but  everything's under control now.
PARIS: Not bad.
TUVOK: Seska's not the only one who knows how to cause a phaser  malfunction.
COMPUTER: The holographic simulation has ended.
TORRES:  It's over.
KIM : Kim to Engineering. I think I can give you transporters now,  Captain.
JANEWAY: That's all right, Harry. No rush.
JANEWAY:  Here's to stories with happy endings.
TUVOK: I must say, Captain. Causing the alien ship to come to our aid  was a very effective plot development.
JANEWAY: Who says deus ex machina is an outdated literary device?
PARIS: I'm just glad you didn't come down with a case of writer's  block.
TORRES: So, you two are going to have to come up with a new idea for  your next literary collaboration.
JANEWAY: What about doing a Western?
TORRES: Or a detective story?
CHAKOTAY: I don't care what kind of story it is, as long as I'm not the  bad guy this time.
NEELIX: I've got a great idea for a holonovel about a daring trader who  becomes a cook on a starship. Eventually, he rises
TUVOK: Mister Neelix, if Mister Paris and I do create another work of  holo-fiction, I assure you we will choose a subject much less close to  home.
