NEELIX: Oh, Gallia nectar! From a blossom which only grows near a  certain lake on Paxau and blooms once every six years. Specialty of the  house.
KIM: This is a real place?
NEELIX: The Paxau resort was the place to go on Talax for serious  relaxation and some personal pampering. It was very exclusive. You had  to be rich and privileged, or know someone rich and privileged who owed  you a favour. I'd say if anyone deserves and needs a little pampering,  it's this crew. Don't you feel as if all your cares are just light  years away?
KIM: Yeah, it's nice.
NEELIX: I'm certainly open to any suggestions for perfecting the  programme.
PARIS: Maybe it could use a little more, er, fun.
KIM: Loosen it up.
PARIS: Yeah, right. Like this guy. He's so formal. Computer, give the  waiter a more casual look. And have him serve Rekarri starbursts all  around. Now, what we need around here are some more people.
KIM: Computer, add characters from Kim Sports Programme Theta Two.
PARIS: What sport would that be, exactly?
KIM: Volleyball. They're a Championship team. Gold medal winners in  2216.
PARIS: No wonder your game's improved.
KIM: You know, this would be even better with more upbeat music.
PARIS: Computer, access the cultural database and create musicians from  Earth's Caribbean region.
PARIS: Now this is relaxing.
NEELIX: More drinks for everyone, and bring out some spicy paraka  wings. You can't have a party without food.
JANEWAY : All senior officers, report to the bridge.
KIM: Great programme, Neelix.
PARIS: Save it for us, will you?
NEELIX: I certainly will. Hey, how can you listen to this without  feeling the urge to dance?
EMH : Sickbay to Kes. Please report here immediately. I've been  informed we may have incoming casualties.
KES: On my way, Doctor.
TUVOK:  Captain, sensor readings indicate that radiation inside the alien  vessel is rising to toxic levels. The lifesigns of the passengers are  growing weaker.
TORRES: Their warp core is heavily damaged. It's leaking drive plasma  and gamma radiation. It could breach any time.
CHAKOTAY: Can we beam the passengers out through all that radiation?
KIM: Not from here. We'd have to get within five thousand kilometres.
TUVOK: At that range, we'll be at risk if their engine core explodes.
JANEWAY: Lieutenant, take us into range.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. Closing to within five thousand kilometres.
KIM: I'm diverting warp power to the targeting scanners, trying to get  a pattern lock. There's still too much interference.
JANEWAY: A little closer, Tom.
TORRES: Captain, I'm reading an energy build-up in the reaction  chamber.
JANEWAY: Mister Kim.
KIM: I've got a lock. Initiating transport.
TORRES: They're losing anti-matter containment.
JANEWAY: Shields up. Move us away.
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
TUVOK: All major systems are undamaged.
KIM: I've got them, Captain. All three passengers are in sickbay.
JANEWAY: I'm impressed.
EMH:  Start with the dermal regenerator on the worst of the radiation burns  and scan for contamination of the surrounding tissue.
KES: It's all right, it's all right, we're taking care of you now.
EMH: You must lie still. You have internal injuries.
NORI: My husband, is he all right?
EMH: I'll sedate you if necessary.
KES: Doctor, his heart's stopped. He's not responding to cardiac  induction.
EMH: Give him twenty milligrams of lectrazine. No effect. His  biochemistry is incompatible with our medications.
KES: No synaptic activity.
EMH: The tissue damage is too extensive. There's nothing more I can do  for him. Record the time.
NORI: No, you must save him! Tieran.
KES: I'm so sorry.
NORI: He can't be gone. He can't.
ADIN:  It was horrible. They chased us across half the sector. We were finally  able to fight them off, but not before our own ship was damaged.
JANEWAY: Do you know who was chasing you?
ADIN: This particular trade route has always been plagued by  mercenaries and thieves. I'm sure they wanted to take our ship and hold  us for ransom. I'm a very prominent physician and Nori is a cousin of  the Autarch.
NORI: We're grateful for your help, Captain. We're complete strangers  to you but we owe you our lives.
JANEWAY: I regret that we weren't able to save your husband as well.
NORI: I know your medical staff did everything they could, and Kes has  been so kind and compassionate that I don't think I could be making it  through this time without her.
ADIN: I certainly hope that bringing us home won't take us too far out  of your way.
JANEWAY: Not at all. We'll reach Ilari in less than two days.
ADIN: When we arrive, I'm sure that the Autarch will want to thank you  personally.
JANEWAY: I'll be very pleased to meet him.
NEELIX: Oh. Hello, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Good to see you too.
NEELIX: I was hoping you'd be Kes. She was supposed to meet me here  twenty minutes ago. It's not like her to be late.
TORRES: She must have gotten held up with some work.
NEELIX: I wasn't sure you'd enjoy the programme with the new  modifications Harry and Tom added.
TORRES: Well, I've made a few modifications of my own.
TORRES: Thank you. Great programme, Neelix.
NEELIX: Computer, locate Kes.
COMPUTER: Kes is in Transporter room one.
ADIN: Don't you worry about using a device that takes apart your  molecules and sends them flying through space?
KES: There are all kinds of safely procedures and back-up systems to  make sure nothing goes wrong.
NEELIX : Neelix to Kes.
KES: Kes here.
NEELIX : I hope you didn't forget our lunch date in the holodeck?
KES: I'm sorry, I'll be right there. I have to go. I'll see you later.
NEELIX: Are you feeling all right, sweeting?
KES: It's just a slight headache.
NEELIX: Well, we should get you to sickbay.
KES: I'll be fine. Really.
NEELIX: After lunch, we could go out for a sail.
KES: That sounds nice, but can we do it some other time? I promised to  show Nori and Adin the airponics bay this afternoon.
NEELIX: You certainly seem to have hit it off with our guests. You've  been nearly inseparable since they got here.
KES: Nori really needs a friend right now. I want to be there for her.  So I hope you understand I'll be busy with her and Adin for the next  few days.
NEELIX: We can keep them busy together. I'll arrange so many fun  activities Nori won't have time to be sad. We can start with a lovely  picnic
KES: This is typical of you, Neelix.
NEELIX: What? Wanting to help?
KES: It bothers you that I'm making friends of my own. You always have  to involve yourself somehow.
NEELIX: Why, I certainly don't mean to intrude on your friendships. You  can spend time with anyone you want.
KES: As long as I still spend most of it with you.
NEELIX: No. I, I'd hope that you'd want to be with me, at least some of  the time. It's not a duty or an obligation.
KES: Well, sometimes it feels that way.
NEELIX: If you feel this way, why haven't you said so before?
KES: Maybe I never realised a relationship could be any different. I've  never been with anyone but you. It might be a good idea for both of us  to spend some time apart. I'm sorry.
NORI:  The Autarch might have taken a personal interest in our welfare.
JANEWAY: I'm sure he does. Our message made it very clear that you had  both completely recovered.
ADIN: I'm so glad you could join us.
JANEWAY: Beam our guest aboard. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway
TUVOK:  Commander, a phaser has been fired in Transporter room one.
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Janeway.
JANEWAY: Emergency in Transporter room oh!
KIM:  There's a transport in progress.
CHAKOTAY: Block it.
KIM: I'm locked out. Commander, it's one of the shuttlecraft. Someone  is beaming it into space.
NORI:  They're right outside the door.
ADIN: You're sure this is safe?
KIM:  Commander, three people just beamed to the shuttle. The two Ilarii, and  Kes.
CHAKOTAY: Lock on the tractor beam.
PARIS: I'm trying, but the shields around the shuttle have been  altered. They're scattering the beam.
CHAKOTAY: Target phasers at their engine core, just enough to knock out  propulsion.
PARIS: It's too late. They've gone to warp.
CHAKOTAY: Set a course to follow them.
PARIS: I can't find the shuttle's warp trail. There's no sign of them  on long range sensors.
TUVOK : Transporter room to Bridge. Ensign Martin and the Ilari  representative are dead. The Captain is injured and has been beamed to  sickbay.
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged.
KIM: It looks like the shuttle's plasma injectors were remodulated to  suppress their warp signature.
CHAKOTAY: You wouldn't think it was possible to make those adjustments  so quickly.
KIM: It takes some incredibly precise calibrations. Someone on that  shuttle really knows what they're doing.
ADIN:  They didn't follow us.
NORI: What's wrong? Does your head hurt?
NORI: Adin should take a look.
ADIN: We're in position over the encampment now. Looks like Resh's  assembled the troops right on schedule. Four hundred men just waiting  for your orders.
RESH: What is this? Nori! I heard your ship had been destroyed.
RESH: That's Tieran?
RESH: Oh, I'm very relieved you survived.
RESH: But we can't go ahead with the attack now!
RESH: This is insane. We've spent years planning this, every move,  every detail, and now suddenly our leader's been reduced to a little  girl?
RESH: You shall have it. Sir.
DEMMAS:  I'm sure they really wanted to kill my father. He's the one they  invited up to your ship. Nori and Adin are known to be political  extremists.
JANEWAY: How could Kes be involved?
DEMMAS: I may be able to explain that. You mentioned that she was with  the third patient when he died?
EMH: That's right. Why?
DEMMAS: I believe your crewmember has been inhabited by the  consciousness of a very dangerous man, named Tieran.
NEELIX: Who is that? What does he want with Kes?
DEMMAS: Oh, I know exactly what he wants. To overthrow my family's  government and to reinstate himself as the Autarch.
TUVOK: He has held title before?
DEMMAS: Tieran ruled Ilari over two centuries ago. He was a war hero, a  brilliant military leader. He brought security and stability during a  difficult time in our history. But in peace time, he began to treat his  own subjects as enemies. He became convinced everyone was a potential  traitor.
CHAKOTAY: At some point your people must have rebelled.
DEMMAS: They did, led by one of my ancestors. They laid siege to the  Imperial Hall for over a year and the city around it was burned to the  ground, but Tieran was finally defeated.
TUVOK: And yet you believe that he, or at least his consciousness, has  survived.
DEMMAS: During his reign he became obsessed with his own mortality. He  spent most of his time, and Ilari's resources, searching for ways to  overcome death. Somehow he's discovered a way to transfer his own mind  into someone else's body, as he's done with Kes.
NEELIX: So he's been controlling her.
DEMMAS: Yes. Completely.
NEELIX: But she, he knew things about Kes's life. He acted enough like  Kes to fool us all. The real Kes must still be in there somewhere.
DEMMAS: Tieran may have access to her memories and her feelings, but  the Kes you know is lost. I'm very sorry.
JANEWAY: I'm not prepared to accept that yet. Examine the body of the  man who died. We need more information about how the transfer works if  we want to get Kes back.
DEMMAS: That's certainly worth exploring, Captain, but our priority  must be to stop Tieran. By force if necessary. Voyager is a powerful  ship.
JANEWAY: You may be considering force, but my only intention is to  rescue Kes and remove Tieran's consciousness. That should suit both our  interests.
DEMMAS: You don't understand what's at stake here, Captain. You must  help me to defend my people.
PARIS : Bridge to the Captain.
JANEWAY: Go ahead.
PARIS : We've located the missing shuttle.
JANEWAY: On my way. Let's hope we can put an end to this right now.
PARIS:  They entered orbit, then dropped their shields and cut their engines.
KIM: There's a residual trace of transporter activity. Looks like four  people beamed from the shuttle to the surface.
DEMMAS: They're in the main chamber of the Imperial Hall.
JANEWAY: Lock onto those patterns and beam them back to Voyager.
KIM: I can't. Some kind of interference has gone up around the whole  structure.
DEMMAS: He's after my family, my father and brother are down there.
AMERON: Father!
RESH: He should have been here.
ADIN: I think I've located the brother. According to security logs  Demmas was transported to Voyager over an hour ago.
ADIN: Loyalty and service to the new Autarch.
NORI: Loyalty and service.
NORI: I'm happy that we've accomplished our goal, but there have been  some unexpected changes and I don't know how they'll affect our future  together. I don't even know if I'm still your wife.
GUARD: Autarch!
AMERON: Tieran?
AMERON: You murdered my father right in front of me.
AMERON: Demmas is the rightful heir, not you.
AMERON: It's the law.
AMERON: You mean if I join you.
AMERON: After what you've done?
DEMMAS:  This coup attempt is turning my people against each other. They're  splitting into factions, mine and Tieran's.
TUVOK: Whom does the law recognise as Autarch?
DEMMAS: Officially, I inherited my father's title upon his death. But  this isn't a matter of law, it's about loyalty. Some people will follow  whoever has more power and right now that's Tieran. He's gaining  support everyday. He's already recruited some of my less reliable  allies, which may include my brother, Ameron.
JANEWAY: Your brother? I assumed he'd been killed.
DEMMAS: So did I, until I learned otherwise from sources on Ilari.  Tieran spared his life no doubt in order to win his loyalty. Ameron's  always been easily swayed.
TUVOK: And you believe he would betray you?
DEMMAS: That's very possible. And if he does there will be no way to  avoid a civil war. I must strike now, before Tieran is fully prepared!
JANEWAY: There are always alternatives to war. Before you send in your  fleet I suggest we hear from the Doctor and consider the possibility of  removing Tieran from Kes safely.
EMH:  I've identified the transfer mechanism. This cortical implant was  automatically activated at the moment of death. It enhanced Tieran's  neural pattern and sent it out along the peripheral nerves. The actual  transfer took place through these bio-electric microfibres. When they  came into direct contact with Kes they transmitted Tieran's pattern up  through her nervous system and into her brain.
DEMMAS: I assume Tieran would implant a device like this in his new  body as quickly as possible.
TUVOK: Perhaps we can use that to our advantage.
EMH: My thoughts exactly. This synaptic stimulator will tap into the  implant in Kes's body and remove the alien neural pattern. Then her own  consciousness can take over.
DEMMAS: Yes, but how close would you have to get to use this device?
EMH: To be fully effective it would have to come in direct contact with  her skin.
DEMMAS: If I could get anywhere near her, I'd use a thoron rifle to be  absolutely sure.
JANEWAY: Not if you want my help. Kes is still a member of this crew,  under my protection.
DEMMAS: I'm very sorry she got caught in the middle of this, Captain,  but too many other innocent lives have already been lost. Including my  father's.
JANEWAY: Then let's work together to prevent any more deaths. Don't  risk the lives of your soldiers until you've exhausted every other  option.
DEMMAS: What exactly do you suggest?
TUVOK: If Tieran is anticipating an attack by your fleet, he may not be  guarding as carefully against an individual infiltrating the Imperial  Hall. I believe I would be able to get close enough to Kes to use the  Doctor's device.
JANEWAY: Your knowledge of the Hall and its defences would be  invaluable to us.
DEMMAS: All right, we'll try your strategy.
ADIN:  The new cortical implant looks fine. Let me just make sure it's  connecting properly to the nerve pathways.
ADIN: That's an entirely different problem. This body isn't accepting  your neural pattern very easily. She wasn't a willing host like the  others.
ADIN: Your neural pattern may become unstable if you stay in this host.  Now that we've got the transfer mechanism in place, I suggest you use  it to move into a more compatible body.
ADIN: Consider the risks!
RESH: Demmas has acquired two more ships.
ADIN: There are reports that his fleet are massing behind the fifth  moon. We should make a pre-emptive strike.
NORI: I'm told that the Viceroy of Genarr is ready to give you his  support in exchange for more territory.
ADIN: What's wrong?
NORI: Tieran?
RESH: Everyone stay where you are.
NORI: Who is he?
RESH: Get that off!
NORI: Are you all right?
NORI: An attack on the Autarch is punishable by death.
TUVOK: You know that I won't provide you with any information.
TUVOK: I had no assistance.
TUVOK: I have no knowledge of the Captain's plans.
TUVOK: She did not.
TUVOK: You are correct.
TUVOK: You will not break my control.
TUVOK: I have never desired Kes.
TUVOK: Kes!
KES: I'm here. I'm fighting him.
TUVOK: I had no doubt you would be.
KES: There are times when he's weaker I can almost break through.
TUVOK: Tap into his strengths, and make them your own.
KES: I'm losing hold.
TUVOK: I am with you. Don't let go.
JANEWAY: Our team will beam down to the surface approximately two  kilometres from the palace. Demmas and his advanced guard will meet us  there.
NEELIX: Captain, I request permission to go with you on the rescue  team. I had basic combat training on Talax. All right, very basic. But  I've also been participating in tactical exercises with this crew every  month. I have a lifetime of experience thinking on my feet, and you  know I'll do everything in my power to make this mission a success.
JANEWAY: Consider yourself drafted.
DEMMAS: The detection grid will make a surprise attack difficult.
PARIS: Well then, we'll have to find a way to knock out the grid.
KIM: I've been scanning it for weaknesses. The system goes through a  maintenance cycle every ten hours. There are a few seconds when it  might be vulnerable to a narrow band EM pulse.
CREWMAN : Bridge to the Captain. You have an incoming transmission  from the planet.
JANEWAY: Put it through.
JANEWAY: What do you mean?
DEMMAS: You've made a bad guess, Tieran. There will be no more rescues.
CHAKOTAY: If this was meant to be a trap, why tell us about it?
ADIN: You're not well.
ADIN: You need to get some sleep.
ADIN: She?
ADIN: You can't stay awake for the rest of your life.
RESH: The Voyager's leaving orbit.
RESH: Yes, sir, but, with all due respect, why? Demmas is on that ship.  Our warships are in position to destroy it.
KES:  You're losing, Tieran. Why won't you admit it?
TIERAN: I will admit that you surprised me. Who would have imagined  that such fierce determination existed within that deceptively frail  body.
KES: Don't continue to underestimate me. Release me, or I'll force you  out.
TIERAN: My dear, why should we be enemies? Why waste the energy in  conflict when we could achieve so much more by cooperating.
KES: You're contemptible, Tieran. I won't be any part of your plans.
TIERAN: You're already a part of them. You and I have killed together,  remember? And you will continue to serve my will. You really have no  choice. Wouldn't it be wiser to join me? To take advantage of all I  have to offer. You may find that you enjoy having power. I assure you,  it is the finest aphrodisiac there is.
KES: That may work with others, but it won't with me.
TIERAN: So, you insist on making this a battle. How foolish.
KES: It's a battle I intend to win.
TIERAN: Brave words. You've been an annoyance to me, nothing more.
KES: I've been more to you than that, and you know it. I'm fighting you  with every bit of strength I have, and it's wearing you down. You're  becoming more unstable every day. The headaches alone are almost more  than you can stand.
TIERAN: I've suffered pain all my life. It's going to take more than  headaches to stop me.
KES: I know all about your life. I know about your suffering. It  doesn't justify what you've become. You're a monster, Tieran, and I  have no compassion for you.
TIERAN: And I don't ask for any. What I need from you I already have.  Your body and your mind.
KES: You may have my body but you'll never have my mind. I won't  surrender it.
TIERAN: You may resist and try to fight me, but eventually I will  defeat you. I haven't existed for two centuries to be brought down by a  child!
KES: You're already deteriorating and it's only going to get worse.  I'll find every little crack in your defences. You'll feel yourself  crumbling from within, your sanity slipping away. I won't stop until  you're broken and helpless. There's nowhere you can go to get away from  me. I'll be relentless and merciless, just like you.
ADIN: You were in such a deep sleep I had to use a stimulant to bring  you out of it. Your neural stress levels are extremely erratic. This  has gone too far. You must transfer out of this body before it destroys  you.
NORI: You know I love you.
RESH: Sir, enemy ships are approaching. At least twenty. It's Demmas's  fleet, and Voyager.
RESH: Yes, but we are outnumbered.
RESH: All the same, I recommend taking some precautions. We should get  you to the reinforced shelter.
NORI: Soon.
NORI: A garden?
RESH: They've made it through our defences. They're sending down ground  forces.
RESH: I'm sending additional troops to the defensive positions.  Activating full security measures. That ought to hold them off, but we  have to go. Now.
RESH: Look for yourself!
NORI: Tieran, please, they're coming.
PARIS:  Tuvok!
TUVOK: Mister Paris.
PARIS: No time for a tearful reunion. We've got to get you out of here.
PARIS: Some day you're going to have to show me how to do that.
NORI:  Don't give in. Stay with me. Tieran!
NORI: Fight it. You must fight it, Tieran. Please, keep fighting.
JANEWAY: Do you have the device ready? Now!
NEELIX: They're getting away.
CHAKOTAY: I'll cover you.
NORI: We've got to get out, find a doctor and get you stabilised or  transferred to a new host. You will survive.
NEELIX: Kes! Stop! Please, stay there. Just let me get to you and this  will all be over.
AMERON: Tieran!
KES: Tieran?
NEELIX: He's gone.
KES: No, he isn't. He's still here. He moved onto someone else before  you used this. He wanted you to think he'd been destroyed, but he's  hiding in a new host. I know you too well, Tieran.
KES: You died a long time ago. Now it's time to let go.
KES: Demmas, it's over.
TUVOK: Your thoughts are a turbulent ocean. Visualise yourself floating  above them.
KES: I can't. I've been using all the meditations you've taught me, but  they're not helping.
TUVOK: You must be patient, and allow yourself sufficient time. Don't  attempt to deny the emotional impact of your experience.
KES: How can I worry about my own well-being when so many people have  suffered and died?
TUVOK: You were not responsible for Tieran's actions.
KES: I can't help wondering whether I could have fought harder.
TUVOK: It was your absolute refusal to surrender which defeated him.  You cannot ask more of yourself than that.
KES: Everything seems so different now. My thoughts and perceptions,  even my relationships with my closest friends. You, the Doctor, Neelix.  How can I go back to my normal life as if nothing ever happened?
TUVOK: You cannot. This experience will force you to adapt. You are no  longer the same person, and the course of your life will change as a  result. Where that new course leads is up to you.
