EMH  : In the beginning there is darkness. The emptiness of a matrix  waiting for the light. Then, a single photon flares into existence,  then another, and soon thousands more. Optronic pathways connect,  subroutines emerge from the chaos, and a holographic consciousness is  born. 
EMH : I awaken into this world fully programmed yet completely  innocent, unaware of the hardships I'll endure or the great potential I  will one day fulfil.
EMH: Computer, save revisions and open chapter one.
KIM: The  deflector's in position.
JANEWAY: Anything?
KIM: I'm picking up a phased tachyon beam.
SEVEN: There's triaxialating signal encoded in it.
JANEWAY: On screen.
BARCLAY : Voyager, this Lieutenant Barclay at Starfleet  Command. Are you receiving this?
JANEWAY: Can you clear it up?
KIM: I'm on it.
ADMIRAL PARIS : Captain Janeway, it's a pleasure to finally  talk to you in person.
JANEWAY: The pleasure's mine, Admiral. How's the weather in San  Francisco?
ADMIRAL PARIS : Cold and rainy as usual.
JANEWAY: It sounds delightful. Lieutenant Barclay, my congratulations  on establishing the first trans-galactic comm. link. You've earned a  place in the history books.
BARCLAY : I can't take all of the credit, Captain. It was  Harry and Seven who suggested bouncing a tachyon beam off of the  quantum singularity.
KIM: Just be sure to thank us when you accept the Daystrom prize.
ADMIRAL PARIS : I wish we had more time for small talk but  the singularity only stays in alignment for eleven minutes a day.
JANEWAY: Eleven minutes are better than none, Admiral. We appreciate  all your work, Reg.
ADMIRAL PARIS : We're going to leave it up to you to  determine how to allocate the comm. time.
BARCLAY : Admiral, er, there was something else.
ADMIRAL PARIS : Oh, yes. Mister Barclay has arranged a small  gift for you and your crew. 
BARCLAY : This is a live image from McKinley Station. Not  too much cloud cover over North America today.
JANEWAY: Quite a view. Thank you, Reg.
NEELIX:  In my hat I hold one hundred and forty six sequentially numbered  isolinear chips, one for every member of the crew. Each chip entitles  the bearer to three minutes of uninterrupted comm. time with his loved  ones back in the Alpha Quadrant. Good luck.
KIM: My Mom's birthday is next week. This could be the best present I  ever gave her. Who's everyone else calling?
CHAKOTAY: I'll be calling my sister. What about you, Captain?
JANEWAY: My mother, I hope.
EMH: Doesn't anyone want to know who I'm calling?
PARIS: Wait, wait, let me guess. Reg Barclay or Doctor Zimmerman.
EMH: What makes you so certain it's either of them?
PARIS: Number six.
NEELIX: That's the lowest one yet. You'll be talking to your family the  day after tomorrow.
KIM: One hundred thirty. That's about a month and a half from now. So  much for Mom's birthday.
EMH: Apparently, the line forms here.
TUVOK: Congratulations.
KIM: Doc, how about a trade? I'm willing to throw in some holodeck  time. Come on. It would mean a lot to my mother.
EMH: I wish I could help, but I have a very important call to make.
PARIS: Here, give your mom my best.
KIM: Are you sure?
PARIS: I've waited this long. What's another six weeks?
BROHT  : I can hear the critics already. A new voice has arrived.  You could be the next K'Ratak or a modern-day Tolstoy. I'd like to  start distribution by the end of the month.
EMH: The material I sent was only a working draft. I need time to make  revisions.
BROHT : If you insist, but please do it quickly.
EMH: I will. So tell me, what did you think of the characters?
BROHT : Oh, they're very real. Compelling. I almost forgot  they were holograms.
EMH: Who was your favourite?
BROHT : Without a doubt, that would have to be Lieutenant
EMH: What happened?
SEVEN: Your time has expired.
EMH: You could have let the man finish his sentence.
SEVEN: I believe your ego has received enough stroking for one day.
PARIS: So how's Reg?
EMH: I'll have you know I was speaking with Ardon Broht, of Broht and  Forrester.
PARIS: The publishers of the Dixon Hill series?
EMH: Who are now about to publish my work. It seems you're not the only  one aboard with a flair for holographic narratives.
PARIS: Congratulations.
EMH: Thank you.
PARIS: So. what's it about?
EMH: The adventures of an intrepid doctor.
PARIS: Oh, sounds like fun. You know, I've never thought about trying  to get my work published. Maybe I could talk to your people about  Captain Proton.
EMH: Broht and Forrester deals in sophisticated literature.
PARIS: What are you saying, that I'm low brow?
EMH: Not at all. I'd be delighted to talk to them.
PARIS: Thanks. So, when do I get to see this opus?
EMH: Well, it's not ready yet.
PARIS: It was ready enough for Broht and Forrester.
EMH: Maybe it could use a fresh pair of eyes. After all, you are a  fellow author. I'll cover the rest of your shift.
PARIS: Oh, I almost forgot. What's it called?
EMH: Photons Be Free.
PARIS: Catchy.
EMH  : I awaken into this world fully programmed, yet completely innocent  unaware of the hardships I'll endure or the great potential I will one  day fulfil.
PARIS: Vortex?
PARIS: Computer, freeze programme. How much longer is this  introduction?
COMPUTER: Nine minutes, four seconds.
PARIS: Skip to the first chapter.
EMH  : Chapter one. A Healer Is Born. In which our protagonist must make  a difficult choice.
CREWMAN: Are you the EMH?
PARIS: Please state the nature of the medical emergency.
CREWMAN: Our doctor's dead. We've got wounded. They're both badly hurt.  Who should we treat first?
PARIS: Second degree plasma burns. He's got an aortic rupture. Get him  to the surgical bay now. 
KATANAY: You. Over here.
PARIS: Nice moustache.
KATANAY: What?
PARIS: Nothing. He's got a mild concussion. I'm going to have to treat  the others first.
KATANAY: I need Lieutenant Marseilles on the bridge. You'll  treat him now.
PARIS: As I understand it my job is to treat the critical patients  first. So, if you'll excuse me
KATANAY: I don't know who you think you are, hologram, but to  me, you're just another piece of technology.
PARIS: Well, apparently, I'm a piece of technology that's in demand so  why don't you go back to the bridge and let me do my job?
JENKINS:  What's going on here?
KATANAY: Our medical hologram is refusing to treat Mister  Marseilles.
JENKINS: Are you malfunctioning?
PARIS: I don't think so.
JENKINS: I need my helmsman back at his station.
PARIS: Lieutenant Marseilles isn't seriously hurt. This man will be  dead in five minutes if I don't operate.
JENKINS: Drop the force field.
JENKINS: That patient is dead. Now you're free to treat Lieutenant Marseilles.
PARIS:  Then the captain pulls out a phaser and shoots him right there on the  biobed.
KIM: Captain Janeway murders a crewman?
PARIS: Captain Jenkins. Everybody has a different name. You're Kymble,  you're Torrey and I am Lieutenant Marseilles.
TORRES: Oh, now that's creative.
KIM: What did you say to the Doctor?
PARIS: He thinks he's written a masterpiece. I didn't know what to tell  him.
KIM: If this gets distributed, people are going to assume this is about  us. What are our families going to think?
TORRES: This is a Starfleet ship. No one will believe we actually go  around shooting injured crewmen.
PARIS: People may not take the programme literally, but they might  wonder if there's some truth to it. I think we should talk to the captain.
TORRES: Are you sure you're not taking this a little personally?
PARIS: What do you mean?
TORRES: Well, the holodeck always has been your domain.
PARIS: You think I'm jealous? Okay, maybe I am overreacting. Why don't  the rest of you try the programme and decide for yourselves?
EMH  : Chapter five. Out of the frying pan. In which our protagonist  must confront abusive colleagues.
CREWWOMAN: I'm here for my physical.
TORRES: Why don't you have a seat over here?
MARSEILLES: Doctor, you better get down to Engineering.
TORRES: What's wrong?
MARSEILLES: A plasma conduit just exploded. At least ten people  are hurt.
MARSEILLES: Hey genius, Forgetting something? Your mobile emitter.
TORRES: Oh, right. I don't see it.
TORRES: That's my mobile emitter?
TORRES: This thing must weigh fifty kilos.
TORREY: I'm impressed.
ENGINEER: Really?
TORREY: Absolutely. I haven't seen a dilithium matrix this far  out of alignment since I served aboard a Ferengi garbage scow. I'll fix  it myself.
TORRES: Excuse me.
TORREY: How many times have I told you? Engineering is off limits  to holograms.
TORRES: Maybe you should waive that restriction during emergencies. A  plasma conduit exploded?
TORREY: Does it look like anyone here is covered with plasma  burns?
TORRES: Lieutenant Paris, er, Marseilles told me there was an accident.
TORREY: Looks like your auditory subroutines are malfunctioning,  again. I'm surprised a matrix as primitive as yours can function at  all.
TORRES: Maybe you should be a little nicer to your shipmates. You never  know when you might need their help.
TORREY: Let's get one thing straight. You're not one of my shipmates.  You're a tool, like this hyperspanner. And tools can be replaced. So why  don't you go back to Sickbay before I start doing a little  reprogramming?
TORRES:  Computer, lights.
MARSEILLES: Didn't I tell you to go to Engineering?
TORRES: Oh, I get it. Interesting plot twist. You get me out of Sickbay  so you're free to give my patient a tonsillectomy.
MARSEILLES: If you even think about mentioning this to my wife, I  will purge your memory buffer. Do we understand each other?
CREWWOMAN 2: I'm here for my physical?
EMH  : Chapter six. Duel in the Ready room. In which our protagonist  faces an inquisition.
JENKINS: This time, you've  gone too far.
NEELIX: Captain, I'm not sure what you mean.
JENKINS: An inventory of your holo-matrix. Fifty gigaquads of  memory devoted to music. Forty two for daydreams. Another ten to expand  your sexuality.
NEELIX: I had no idea holograms could do that.
JENKINS: These extracurricular subroutines don't belong as  part of an Emergency Medical Hologram. Do you have anything to say for  yourself?
NEELIX: Er, of course I do. I don't think these subroutines are  trivial, Captain. They help make me a better doctor and a better  person.
JENKINS: But you're not a person. You may be programmed to look  and act human, but that doesn't make you one. These subroutines are  going to be deleted immediately. Mister Tulak.
JENKINS: Take the EMH to the holo-lab for reprogramming.
EMH  : Chapter Seven. The Escape. In which our protagonist is aided by  his only ally.
KYMBLE: I'm not sure we should be doing this, Commander.
KIM: Listen to him. He knows what he's talking about.
KYMBLE: Quiet! I'm not talking to you. If we start tinkering with  his matrix how do we know we won't accidentally delete some of his  diagnostic subroutines?
TULAK: You afraid you'll catch something on your next away  mission, Ensign?
KYMBLE: There must be millions of viruses in this quadrant that no  one's ever encountered before. With my luck, I'll probably end up  catching half of them.
KIM: Great, my character's a hypochondriac.
THREE: I'll escort the prisoner  from here.
TULAK: Our orders are to take him to the holo-lab.
THREE: I've been ordered to perform the procedure.
TULAK: Your sympathies for the EMH are no secret, Three of Eight.  Step aside.
THREE: Run, Doctor!
JENKINS: I've tried to do this the easy way, but it's clear  you're not going to be reasonable. Your matrix will be decompiled and  reinitialised. You'll remain offline except for emergencies.
TORREY: Ready.
JENKINS: Do it.
THREE: Wait. He has the right to expand his programme.
JENKINS: He's a piece of technology. He has no rights.
THREE: But he should. One day, the EMH and others like him will  be  recognised for what they are. Intelligent individuals with a passion  for life. Make no mistake, Captain. We may be thousands of light years  from home, but one day people will learn of the crime you're committing  here today.
JENKINS: Nice speech. Now decompile the programme.
COMPUTER: End of programme.
JANEWAY: Janeway to the Doctor. Report to my ready room now.
EMH: How  many times do you want me to say it? My work is not about the Voyager  crew.
KIM: Come on. Ensign Kymble? Lieutenant Marseilles?
TORRES: The characters look almost exactly like us.
EMH: I used your physical parameters as a starting point, but I assure  you any further similarities are purely coincidental.
PARIS: You set your story on a starship lost in the Delta Quadrant.
EMH: What would you have me write about? Palace intrigue on the Klingon  homeworld? I do what all good novelists do. I write what I know.
KIM: So it is about Voyager.
EMH: No! The Vortex characters are larger than life. They're nothing  like our crew. As far as I know, Captain, you haven't executed any of my  patients.
JANEWAY: Doctor, you've written a very imaginative story, but it's  conceivable that people will think it's based on fact.
EMH: I don't see how.
KIM: How many holograms carry mobile emitters?
EMH: The emitter in my story is nothing like the real one.
TORRES: Yeah, what was the point of that? It was like carrying around a  small shuttlecraft.
EMH: It's a metaphor. A symbol of the burdens that I live with every  day. Imagine having to take this everywhere you go. It would be a  constant reminder that you're different from everyone else. I wanted  the player to feel the weight of it. Literally.
JANEWAY: Your emitter isn't a ball and chain. It liberates you.
EMH: It doesn't always feel that way.
JANEWAY: If I didn't know better, I'd think this story was written by  someone who feels oppressed. Is that how you see yourself, Doctor?
EMH: Of course not. The real victims are my brothers in the Alpha Quadrant.
TORRES: Brothers?
EMH: Hundreds of EMH mark ones. Identical to me in every respect  except, they've been condemned to a menial existence. Scrubbing  conduits, mining dilithium. There's a long history of writers drawing  attention to the plight of the oppressed. The Vedek's Song, for example  tells the story of the occupation of Bajor.
JANEWAY: I understand you have your reasons for writing this, but you  should consider how it's going to make your friends feel.
EMH: I'm sorry my work offends you. But if the price of expressing  myself is having to suffer the scorn of a few colleagues, so be it.
MARY  KIM : You're very popular with my eighth graders. It's all  they ever talk about. Voyager this, Voyager that.
JOHN KIM : Your mother has a small favour to ask of you.
KIM: Name it.
MARY KIM : I was hoping you could record a short  presentation about what it's like to command a starship.
KIM: But I don't command a starship.
MARY KIM : In your letters you said the captain puts you in  charge sometimes.
KIM: What I said was I'm in command of the night shift, twice a week.
MARY KIM : She must think very highly of you to give you so  much responsibility.
JOHN KIM : So when is she giving you a promotion?
KIM: It's a small ship. There are only so many command positions  available.
MARY KIM : This Captain Janeway sounds like a lovely woman.  Maybe I should write her.
KIM: Mom!
MARY KIM : She needs to know how hard you work.
KIM: Please, don't get involved.
MARY KIM : Harry, I can't hear you.
SEVEN: A solar flare is scattering the beam.
MARY KIM : Tell Captain Janeway to expect a letter from me.
KIM: Mom, don't send anything to the captain, do you hear me? Try  boosting the deflector output.
SEVEN: It's already at maximum.
KIM: Argh! I don't believe this. I had a minute and a half left.
SEVEN: You'll have another opportunity to speak with them in  approximately two months.
KIM: You just don't get it, do you?
SEVEN: No.
KIM: Maybe if you had family you were close to, you'd feel a little  differently.
EMH:  Computer, run EMH programme Photons Be Free.
EMH: Computer, freeze programme.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply.
EMH: Voyeur?
PARIS  : Chapter one. It's The Doctor's World, You're Just Living In  It.
EMH: This is outrageous.
TWO: I'm Two of Three.
TWO: It hurts when I do this.
TWO: Ow!
EMH:  Lieutenant! I want you to know I'm making a full report to the captain.
PARIS: This isn't about that dermal regenerator I misplaced, is it?
EMH: You know very well what this is about. You accessed my holo-novel  without permission and replaced it with your own hackneyed narrative.
PARIS: Hey, I'm just writing what I know.
EMH: You destroyed a work of art that took months to create.
PARIS: Relax, Doc. I saved your programme in a backup file. But I was  just trying to make a point.
EMH: Well, you made it, with a typical lack of subtlety.
PARIS: Oh, you're one to talk. Your programme is about as subtle as a  Ferengi mating dance.
EMH: My programme is a serious attempt at social commentary, yours is  an insulting farce! You had me drugging a patient and taking advantage  of her.
PARIS: Don't be ridiculous. That character is not you. For one thing,  he has much more hair. But what if some people ran that programme and  thought that it was based on you?
EMH: I don't care what people think.
PARIS: That's all you care about! You want everyone back home to think  of you as a brilliant author.
EMH: I'm not doing this for my ego. And if you could look past yours,  maybe you'd see that.
PARIS: Listen, I don't care if the whole Alpha Quadrant mistakes me for  Lieutenant Marseilles. What bothers me is that you think that's what  I'm like.
EMH: Obviously, you're nothing like Marseilles. He's self-indulgent,  immature.
PARIS: And how would you describe me?
EMH: Well, you're a married man with a child on the way. A lot of  responsibilities.
PARIS: I'm surprised you noticed. You know, I thought I'd begun to earn  your respect. Maybe I was wrong. Your programme is under file theta one  five. Do whatever you want with it.
NEELIX:  Doctor, I need your help.
EMH: Unless you're suffering acute symptoms, go away.
NEELIX: Er, I was wondering if you could take a quick look at this.
EMH: Cooking with Neelix, a Culinary Tour of the Delta Quadrant.
NEELIX: It's a holo-cookbook proposal. I was hoping to transmit it to  your publisher during my comm. link this afternoon. With your approval,  of course.
EMH: If you're looking for writing tips, there are plenty of people on  this ship eager to offer them.
NEELIX: I don't know what anyone else may have told you, but I loved  your holo-novel.
EMH: You did?
NEELIX: Absolutely. It was a rousing adventure, with an important  message too.
EMH: Exactly. This is my first chance to be appreciated not just as a  physician, but as an artist. I thought the crew would be happy for me.
NEELIX: You're going to reach a wide audience. What do you care about  the opinions of a few disgruntled shipmates?
EMH: They're my friends. I don't want to hurt them.
NEELIX: There's an old Talaxian expression. When the road before you  splits in two, take the third path.
EMH: Meaning?
NEELIX: You could make some adjustments to the programme so it won't be  so obvious it's based on Voyager.
EMH: I suppose I could change the setting, alter the characters'  physical parameters.
NEELIX: You wouldn't have to change your theme.
EMH: No. But a rewrite could take weeks. My publisher is expecting a  final draft tomorrow.
NEELIX: Maybe you should give him a call.
BROHT  : Revisions?
EMH: I need to rework the characters.
BROHT : Why? They're so believable.
EMH: A little too believable, apparently.
BROHT : Doctor, I, I really don't think this is necessary.
EMH: I'm afraid I have to insist. My friends' reputations are at stake.
EMH: My  publisher assures me he won't distribute the programme until he  receives the revised version.
TORRES: That must be the one where we assimilate the Borg and take over  the quadrant.
JANEWAY: We're all grateful that you're taking our feelings into  account.
CHAKOTAY: So how long do you expect the revisions will take?
EMH: Art can't be rushed.
JANEWAY: Take your time, Doctor.
EMH: Lieutenant? I'm sorry.
PARIS: Forget about it.
EMH: I could use your help with the rewrites.
PARIS:  Really? You realise, as a writer I'm a little unsophisticated.
EMH: No, I believe the phrase you're looking for is low brow.
PARIS:  Hey. What's that?
TORRES: It's from my father. He wants to talk.
PARIS: What are you going to do?
TORRES: Well, I've already arranged to talk with my cousin.
PARIS: Oh, I'm sure she wouldn't mind waiting a few weeks.
TORRES: I wouldn't know what to say to him.
PARIS: Then let him do the talking.
JOHN  TORRES : Look at you. You must be, what, twenty weeks along?
TORRES: Twenty three, actually.
JOHN TORRES : Have you decided on a name?
TORRES: Not yet. We were thinking about Miral.
JOHN TORRES : Your mother would've liked that. You know, I  had some business on Kessik Four a few months ago. You wouldn't believe  what our old house looks like.
SEVEN: Lieutenant, thirty seconds.
TORRES: We have less than a minute. Is there a reason you wanted to  talk?
JOHN TORRES : I know I can't make up for twenty years in one  conversation. The truth is, when your ship disappeared, I thought I'd  lost you. I don't expect you to forgive me but, maybe we could try to  get to know each other again.
TORRES: I'll write you.
BARCLAY:  I'm sorry to disturb you, Admiral.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Ah yes, Mister Barclay. What can I do for you?
BARCLAY: I thought you'd want to see this, sir.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Well, what is it?
BARCLAY: It's a holonovel that's becoming quite popular.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Well, I appreciate the gesture Lieutenant but, I don't  share your affinity for holographic diversions.
BARCLAY: You don't understand, sir. This programme, it's about Voyager.  And it doesn't portray the crew in a very flattering light.
ADMIRAL PARIS: Hmm.
JANEWAY:  On screen.
ADMIRAL PARIS : Captain.
JANEWAY: Seven told me your message was urgent.
ADMIRAL PARIS : I had the dubious privilege of playing a new  holonovel apparently written by your EMH. I'm surprised that you would  allow the Doctor to discredit your crew like this.
JANEWAY: He's still making revisions. The programme shouldn't have been  distributed yet.
ADMIRAL PARIS : Well, it has been. Mister Barclay tells me  it's already being played in thousands of holosuites. 
EMH: You  assured me you were going to wait for my revisions. I demand that you  recall every copy and issue a public apology to Captain Janeway and her  crew.
BROHT : I won't do anything of the sort.
JANEWAY: I don't see that you have a choice, Mister Broht. Authors have  rights.
BROHT : Not in this case.
EMH: What do you mean?
BROHT : The Doctor is a hologram.
EMH: So?
BROHT : According to Federation law, holograms have no  rights.
TUVOK:  Under a strict interpretation of Federation law, Mister Broht is  correct. The Doctor has no legal rights.
EMH: Because I'm a hologram.
TUVOK: Yes. There is another option. We may be able to claim that the  holonovel reveals classified information. Starfleet could then request  that it be recalled for security purposes.
PARIS: Oh, great idea. A cover up. And then everyone will be convinced  that it's a true story.
CHAKOTAY: Could we claim defamation?
PARIS: Well, we'd have to prove that the story's about us and that  we've been harmed by it.
JANEWAY: We might win on those grounds. But what about the Doctor?
EMH: What about me, Captain? It's the crew's reputations that are as  risk.
JANEWAY: I'm not so sure. I think it's your reputation that's on the  line here. You have the same rights as every other member of this crew,  and I'm not going to let this publisher say otherwise.
TUVOK  : You claim the Doctor doesn't have the legal right to  control this  holoprogramme, yet you're promoting the fact that Voyager's EMH wrote  it.
BROHT: Our most successful children's title is a programme written by  Toby the Targ. Fortunately Toby hasn't tried to stop me from  distributing any of his work.
TUVOK : But you don't deny
TUVOK: That the Doctor is the creator of this holonovel?
BROHT:  No, but a replicator created this cup of coffee. Should that replicator  be able to determine whether or not I can drink it?
EMH: I  object!
JANEWAY: Doctor.
TUVOK: An intriguing analogy, Mister Broht. But I have never  encountered a replicator that could compose music, or paint landscapes,  or perform microsurgery. Have you? Would you say that you have a  reputation for publishing respected, original works of literature?
BROHT:  I'd like to think so.
TUVOK : And is the Doctor's holonovel such a work?
BROHT: Actually, some aspects of it are quite derivative.
TUVOK:  Has there even been another work written about a hologram's struggle  for equality?
BROHT:  Not that I know of, but, er
TUVOK : Then in
TUVOK: That respect, it is original.
BROHT: I  suppose so.
TUVOK:  Your honour, Section seven gamma of the Twelfth Guarantee defines an  artist as a person who creates an original artistic work. Mister Broht  admits that the Doctor created this  programme and that it is original.  I therefore submit that the Doctor should be entitled to all rights and  privileges accorded an artist under the law.
ARBITRATOR : You've made a persuasive argument, Commander,  but there's a flaw in your logic.  As you point out, the law says that the creator of an artistic work  must be a person. Your EMH doesn't meet that criteria.
BARCLAY : Sir, we're losing the link.
ARBITRATOR : This hearing is in recess until tomorrow.
TUVOK:  We're not doing well.
EMH: Is that your considered legal opinion? I'm sorry. It's just  frustrating to be told I have no more legal standing than an  replicator.
TUVOK: If the Doctor doesn't have the right to control his own work,  then it stands to reason he never had the right to enter into an  agreement with Mister Broht. We could argue that the original contract  is invalid.
PARIS: In other words, you want to concede that the Doctor isn't a  person.
JANEWAY: What we need to do is prove that he is just as much a person  as any of us.
EMH: How do we do that?
JANEWAY: By telling your real life story.
SEVEN  : Because I was having difficulty interacting with the crew,  the Doctor gave me social lessons. First, he taught me how to make  conversation. Later
SEVEN: How to dance. Eventually, he showed me how to express romantic  interest.
SEVEN  : Without his guidance, I wouldn't be the person I am today.
KIM: He  decided it wasn't enough to be just a doctor, so he added command  subroutines to his matrix and now, in an emergency, he's as capable as  any bridge officer.
ARBITRATOR:  That only proves the Doctor's programme can be modified.
KIM : Your honour, I think it shows he has a desire to  become more than he is, just like any other person.
BARCLAY: He travelled halfway across the galaxy to care for Lewis  Zimmerman, the man who created his programme. It was like a son who  wanted to show his father what he'd become, so the old man would be  proud of him. And if you ask me, he was.
JANEWAY : I'd made myself clear. But the Doctor disobeyed my  direct orders. In the process, he endangered the ship and crew.
ARBITRATOR: That's hardly commendable behaviour.
JANEWAY:  No, it wasn't. But it was human.
JANEWAY  : Starfleet had programmed him to follow orders.
JANEWAY:  The fact that he was capable of doing otherwise proves that he can  think for himself. Your Honour, centuries ago in most places on Earth,  only landowners of a particular gender and race had any rights at all.  Over time, those rights were extended to all humans, and later, as we  explored the galaxy, to thousands of other sentient species. Our  definition of what constitutes a person has continued to evolve. Now  we're asking that you expand that definition once more, to include our  Doctor.
JANEWAY  : When I met him seven years ago,
JANEWAY:  I would never have believed that an EMH could become a valued member of  my crew, and my friend. The Doctor is a person as real as any
JANEWAY  : Flesh and blood I have ever known. If you believe the testimony  you've heard here, it's only fair
JANEWAY: To conclude that he has the same rights as any of us.
ARBITRATOR:  You'll have my decision in two days.
ARBITRATOR  : This hearing is in recess.
SEVEN:  When you sing happy birthday to your mother, try to stay in tune.
KIM: What's this?
SEVEN: An isolinear chip entitling the bearer to three minutes of comm.  time tomorrow. You made it clear how important it was to finish your  conversation.
KIM: I overreacted.
SEVEN: I understand why you did. I've been observing the crew  interacting with their families over the past few days.  It's become clear to me how meaningful that communication can be.
KIM: Thanks, but I can't accept this.
SEVEN: Why not?
KIM: You should contact your own family.
SEVEN: My parents were assimilated.
KIM: There must be someone. A distant relative?
SEVEN: My father has a sister on Earth. Irene Hansen.
KIM: I'm sure she'd be thrilled to hear from you.
IRENE  HANSON : You can imagine my reaction when Starfleet told me  to expect your call.
SEVEN: I experienced some apprehension myself.
IRENE HANSON : You seem like a lovely young woman. But you  were the most stubborn six-year-old I've ever met.  Your parents left you with me for a weekend, and you were so angry you  locked yourself in my guest room and refused to come out.
SEVEN: That must have been inconvenient for you.
IRENE HANSON : Oh, I coaxed you out eventually with a  strawberry tart.
SEVEN: I'm very fond of strawberries. I didn't realise I'd eaten them  as a child.
IRENE HANSON : You couldn't get enough of them. Of course,  you didn't hesitate to point out if they weren't perfectly ripe.
SEVEN: I'm sorry if I insulted you. Perhaps I shouldn't have called.
IRENE HANSON : No, I'm very glad you did. It's wonderful to  see you again, Annika.
ARBITRATOR:  We're exploring new territory today, so it is fitting that this hearing  is being held at Pathfinder. The Doctor exhibits many of the traits we  associate with a person. Intelligence, creativity, ambition, even  fallibility. But are these traits real, or is the Doctor merely  programmed to simulate them?  To be honest, I don't know. Eventually we will have to decide, because  the issue of holographic rights isn't going to go away. But at this time, I am not prepared to rule that the Doctor is a person  under the law.  However, it is obvious he is no ordinary hologram and while I can't say  with certainty that he is a person, I am willing to extend the legal  definition of artist to include the Doctor.  I therefore rule that he has the right to control his work. I'm  ordering all copies of his holo-novels to be recalled immediately.
BROHT: Your honour!
ARBITRATOR: This hearing is adjourned.
BARCLAY: Congratulations, Doctor.
EMH:  Thank you, Reg.
ADMIRAL PARIS : We'll be in touch, Captain.
JANEWAY: You don't look like someone who's just struck the first blow  for the rights of holograms.
EMH: I don't mean to sound ungrateful, but it feels like a hollow  victory. Pardon the pun. The programme's already been played by thousands  of people. The damage is done.
JANEWAY: We'll survive.
PARIS: If I'm not mistaken, don't you have a holonovel to revise?
EMH: Do you think I'll be able to find another publisher?
JANEWAY: If there's one thing I've learned about you, Doctor, it's that  you can do just about anything you set your mind to.
EMH1: Time for your diagnostic. Report to the holo-lab.
EMH2: I know the routine.
EMH1: And, while you're there, do yourself a favour. Ask the operator  to run programme forty seven beta.
EMH2: Why? What is it?
EMH1: It's called Photons Be Free. It's quite provocative.
